Section 7.1 Amendment.
This Declaration may be amended by Declarant at any time so long as Declarant owns at
least one (1) Lot from the date this Declaration is filed of record with the office of the County or
for a period of not less than fifteen (15) years. Within such period, Declarant may amend the
Declaration for any reason without the consent or joinder of any party or without the need to call
a meeting of the Association. In addition to the foregoing, the Declaration may be amended by
an instrument containing such amendment(s) and recorded in the Official Public Records of the
County, provided, that (i) during the period Declarant owns at least one Lot, no such amendment
shall be valid or effective without the joinder and consent of Declarant and (ii) such amendment
shall first be approved by the affilmative vote or written consent of the Association's Members
representing at least 51% of the votes in the Association voting, in person or by proxy, at a duly
convened meeting of the Association.
31

Furthermore, Declarant or the Board may, at its sole discretion and without a vote or the
consent of any other party, modify, amend, or repeal this Declaration: (i) as necessary to bring any
provision into compliance with any applicable statute, governmental rule, regulation, or judicial
determination; (ii) as necessary to comply with the requirements of VA, or HUD (Federal Housing
Administration), FHLMC or FNMA or any other applicable governmental agency or secondary
mortgage market entity; or (iii) as necessary for clarification or to correct technical, typographical
or scrivener's errors; provided, however, any amendment pursuant to clause (ii) and/or (iii)
immediately above must not have a material adverse effect upon any right of any Owner. Any
amendment to this Declaration must be recorded in the Real Property Records of the County.

No amendment may remove, revoke, or modify any right or privilege of Declarant, the Class
B Member, or a Builder without the written consent of Declarant or the Class B Member,
respectively (or the assignee of such right or privilege). If an Owner consents to any
amendment to this Declaration or the Bylaws, it will be conclusively presumed that the Owner
has the authority to consent, and no contrary provision in any mortgage or contract between
the Owner and a third party will affect the validity of such amendment.

Section 7.2 Termination.
At any time, the Owners may terminate and extinguish this Declaration in its entirety by
executing an instrument terminating this Declaration and recording same in the Official Public
Records of the County, provided, however, that (i) for the period in which Declarant owns at least
one Lot or any other portion of the development, no such termination shall be valid or effective
without the joinder and consent of Declarant and (ii) such termination and extinguishment shall
first be approved by the affirmative vote or written consent of the Association's Members
representing at least 75% of the votes in the Association.
