Section 11.1 Power and Duties.
Except as provided in Article XII below, the Board, for the benefit of the Association, the
Property and the Owners shall have the right to do all things which are necessary or advisable in
connection with enforcing the provisions of this Declaration. During the Declarant Control
Period the Declarant may limit or delegate powers to the Board at its sole discretion. Such powers
shall include, but shall not be limited to, the following unless Declarant dictates otherwise in
writing:
11.1.1 Paying assessments and charges for sewer, water and garbage pickup
services for the Properties, if any, the installation and maintenance charges for street
lighting for the Property, if any, and taxes, assessments and other charges which shall
properly be assessed or charged against the Common Properties.
11.1.2 Performing maintenance on the Common Properties which may include,
without limitation, the following: (a) maintenance of any driveways, private roadways,
jogging paths, walkways and sidewalks; (b) maintenance of grounds, including care of
trees, shrubs and grass, lighting systems, sprinkler systems (if installed) and similar
facilities on the Common Properties; and (c) maintenance of the entry monument(s) and
any screening walls or fences constructed around the perimeter of the Property; provided,
further, that in the event that the need for maintenance or repair is caused through the
willful or negligent act of any Owner, his family, his guests or invitees, the cost of such
maintenance or repairs shall be added to and become a part of the assessment to which such
Lot is subject.
43

11.1.3 Managing and maintaining the Common Properties and full maintenance
of a utility service for the Common Properties; the furnishing and upkeep of any desired
personal property for use in the Common Properties.
11.1.4 Purchasing a policy or policies of insurance insuring the Association
against any liability to the public or to the Owners (and/or invitees or tenants) incident to
the operation of the Association, in an amount not less than $250,000.00 to indemnify
against the claim of one person, $500,000.00 against the claims of two or more persons in
any one occurrence, and property damage insurance in an amount not less than $50,000.00
per occurrence; which policy or policies shall contain an endorsement providing that the
rights of the named insured shall not be prejudiced with respect to actions against other
named insured's; provided, that under no circumstances shall the Board be authorized to
provide or pay for fire, casualty, or other insurance insuring the interest of any Owner in
his Lot.
11.1.5 Executing all re-plats of the Property and all declarations of ownership for
tax assessment purposes with regard to the Common Properties on behalf of all Owners.
11.1.6 Borrowing funds to pay costs of operation, secured by assignment or
pledge of rights against delinquent Owners, if the Board sees fit.
11.1.7 Entering into contracts (contracts entered into by the Declarant are not
subject to Board's approval and the Board may not terminate a contract executed by the
Declarant), maintaining one or more bank accounts, and generally exercising all the powers
necessary or incidental to the operation and management of the Association, expressly
including the power to enter into management and maintenance contracts.
11.1.8 Protecting or defending the Common Properties from loss or damage by
suit or otherwise, and to provide adequate reserves for replacements.
11.1.9 Making reasonable rules and regulations for the operation of the Common
Properties and operation of the Association and ability to amend them from time to time,
provided that any rule or regulation may be amended or repealed by the vote of at least
sixty-seven percent (67%) of those Members present, in person or by proxy, at a meeting
called for such purpose (without limiting the generality of the foregoing language, the rules
and regulations may provide for limitations on use of the Common Properties during
certain periods by youthful persons, visitors or otherwise).
11.1.10 Adjusting the amount, collecting and using any insurance proceeds to
repair damage or replace lost property, and if proceeds are insufficient to repair damage or
replace lost property, assessing the Members in proportionate amounts to cover the
deficiency.
11.1.11 Enforcing the provisions of this Declaration, the Design Guidelines, any
Community-Wide Standard, and any rules made hereunder, and to enjoining and seeking
damages from any Owner for violation of such provisions or rules.
44

11.1.12 Exercising the rights granted to the Association in this Declaration,
including, without limitation, all rights of the Board, the Association, and the ACC relating
to architecture, design, and construction review and inspections under Article III.
The Association may exercise any right or privilege given to it expressly or by reasonable
implication by this Declaration, the Bylaws, or the Certificate of Formation, and may take action
reasonably necessary to effectuate any such right or privilege. Except as otherwise specifically
provided in such documents or by law, all of the Association's rights and powers may be exercised
by the Board without a vote of the membership.
The Board may institute, defend, settle, or intervene on the Association's behalf in
mediation, binding or non-binding arbitration, litigation, or administrative proceedings in matters
pertaining to the Common Properties, enforcement of this Declaration, or any other civil claim or
action. However, the Board shall exercise business judgment in determining whether to take any
such action under particular circumstance and shall have no legal duty to institute litigation under
any circumstances on behalf of or in the name of the Association or the Members.
Section 11.2 Board Power, Exclusive.
The Board shall have the exclusive right to contract for all goods, services and insurance,
payment for which is to be made from the maintenance fund, and the exclusive right and obligation
to perform the functions of the Board, except as otherwise provided herein.
Section 11.3 Owner's Obligations to Repair.
Except for those portions of each Lot constituting the Common Properties, each Owner
shall at his sole cost and expense, maintain and repair his Lot and the improvements situated
thereon, keeping the same in good condition and repair. In the event that any Owner shall fail to
maintain and repair his Lot and such improvements as required hereunder, the Association, in
addition to all other remedies available to it hereunder or by law, and without waiving any of said
alternative remedies, shall have the right but not the obligation, subject to the notice and cure
provisions of Section 6.1 above, through its agents and employees, to enter upon said Lot and to
repair, maintain and restore the Lot and the exterior of the buildings and any other improvements
erected thereon; and each Owner (by acceptance of a deed for his Lot) hereby covenants and agrees
to repay to the Association the cost thereof immediately upon demand, and the failure of any such
Owner to pay the same shall carry with it the same consequences as the failure to pay any
assessments hereunder when due.
Section 11.4 Maintenance Contracts with Owners.
The Board, on behalf of the Association, shall have full power and authority to contract
with any Owner, including Members of the Board, for the performance by or for the Association
of services pursuant to the terms hereof (including, but not limited to, the maintenance and repair
of fences owned by any such Owner), such contracts to be upon such terms and conditions and for
such consideration as the Board may deem proper, advisable and to the best interest of the
45

Association; provided, however, that same must be commercially reasonable in all circumstances.
Contracts which may be entered into with a member of the Board shall comply with all applicable
local and /or State ordinances. Members of the Board may not be compensated for perfol mance
related to their duties as a Board of Director.
Section 11.5 Liability of the Board of Directors.
The Association shall indemnify every officer, director, and committee member against all
damages and expenses, including attorneys' fees, reasonably incurred in connection with any
action, suit, or other proceeding (including settlement of any suit or proceeding if approved by the
Board of Directors at the time of such settlement) to which he or she may be a party by reason of
being or having been an officer, director, or committee member. OFFICERS, DIRECTORS,
AND COMMITTEE MEMBERS SHALL NOT BE LIABLE FOR ANY MISTAKE OF
JUDGMENT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE, EXCEPT FOR THEIR OWN
INDIVIDUAL WILLFUL MISFEASANCE, MALFEASANCE, MISCONDUCT, OR BAD
FAITH. The Association's officers and directors shall have no personal liability with respect to
any contract or other commitment made or action taken in good faith on behalf of the Association.
The Association shall indemnify and forever hold each such officer, director, and committee
member harmless from any and all liability to others on account of any such contract, commitment,
or action. This right to indemnification shall not be exclusive of any other rights to which any
present or former officer, director, or committee member may be entitled. The Association shall,
as an Association expense, maintain adequate general liability and officers' and directors' liability
insurance to fund this obligation, if such insurance is reasonably available.
Section 11.6 Notice and Hearing Procedures Prior to the Initiation of Certain Types of
Actions by the Association.
Except as set forth in paragraph (c) below, prior to filing suit to enforce the provisions of
this Declaration, the Design Guidelines, any Community-Wide Standard or rules promulgated
hereunder, the Association shall comply with the notice and hearing procedures set forth in
subsections (a) and (b) below.
(a)
Notice. The Association shall serve the alleged violator with a minimum of one
(I) written notice describing (i) the nature of the alleged violation and a request for its abatement,
(ii) the action which the Association proposes or intends to take unless the violation is corrected
within the time allotted in the notice. Within a period of not less than thirty (30) days within
which the Owner was notified of the alleged violation, the Owner may present a written request
for a hearing. If Owner does not abate/cure any violation within the time frame given, the
Association may proceed with the action which may include the Association's right to initiate Self
Help actions wherein the Association shall make the necessary repairs to correct the violation and
all charges incurred by the Association in abating the violation shall be assessed to the Owner's
account. Emergency situations as they may be deemed to exist by the Declarant, the Board or its
managing agent shall be exempt from the time restraints or limitations set forth for self-help so
long as it is reasonably assumed, using good faith judgment, that the violation causes or may cause
injury, be a health hazard to persons or animals, may cause damage to Owner's property or
common property or neighbors adjoining property. A twenty-four (24) hour notice shall be given
46

and may be done by e-mail or posting to the front door of the Owner's property. Notice by U.S.
mail may also be made but, shall not prevent or hinder the twenty-four (24) hour rule in the case
of emergencies. If Owner requests a hearing the violation and/or fine process shall be suspended
until after the hearing is held and a decision has been rendered.
Non-Payment of fines for non-compliance or charges assessed by the Association for
Self Help remedies will be collected according to applicable law and per current Texas Property
Code regulations. Charges will be subject to possible late and/or collection charges when
applicable. If the violation is abated within the time period set forth in the written notice, the
Association shall suspend the proposed action unless a similar violation occurs within six (6)
months from the date of the written notice. Such suspension shall not constitute a waiver of the
right to sanction future violations of the same or other provisions and rules by any Owner.
Recurring violations within a six (6) month period will not require the Association to issue again
notices previously sent. If the required notice was previously sent, the Association may, at its
discretion, send an immediate notice of fine warning to the Owner which must allow the Owner
not less than five (5) days to correct the violation, excluding any violation deemed to require
immediate correction such as an emergency situation as outlined above. If Owner does not make
the necessary corrections, the Association may begin fines or initiate Self Help action without
further notice required; Notwithstanding, when initiating a fine, a Notice of Fine shall be issued.
(b)
Hearing. If a hearing is requested within any allotted thirty (30) day period of
violation notice being provided, the hearing shall be held before a committee appointed by the
Board consisting of three (3) persons, all of whom shall be members of the ACC, Owners or
Members of the Association, or representatives of the Declarant. A representative of the
Association may attend and shall he afforded a reasonable opportunity to make a statement
describing the alleged violation and to present any evidence or witnesses to support its statement.
The alleged violator shall also be afforded a reasonable opportunity to be heard and to present any
evidence or witnesses on his or her behalf. At the conclusion of all statements and presentations,
the committee may close the hearing and retire to discuss the evidence and to render a judgment
as to whether, in fact, a violation has occurred or may announce to the Owner that a decision will
be rendered by U.S. mail within ten (10) days of the hearing date. The committee shall notify the
Association in writing of its determination. If the committee determines that a violation has
occurred, the Association may pursue any and all remedies described in its original notice of the
violation. The alleged violator shall have the opportunity to appeal the decision of the committee
to the Board in accordance with Section 209.007 of the Texas Residential Property Owners Act,
Texas Property Code, as it may be amended.
(c)
Applicability. The notice and hearing procedures set forth in this Section shall not
apply to any claim: (i) upon which the Board deems it necessary to obtain emergency injunctive
relief; (ii) pertaining to the collection of assessments; or (iii) where the Association decides to
exercise its right of self-help to cure the violation after written notice to the Owner and an
opportunity to cure.
(d)
Right of Action. The Association shall not have the power to institute, pursue,
join, intervene in, settle or compromise litigation, arbitration or other proceedings: (i) in the name
of or on behalf of any Owner (whether one or more); or (ii) pertaining to a claim relating to the
design, construction or repair of a residence, a Lot or any improvements on a Lot (other than a
47

Claim (as defined in Section 12.6.2 hereof) relating to Common Properties to be maintained by
the Association hereunder on one or more Lots). This Section may not be amended or modified
without Declarant's written and acknowledged consent and the consent of Members entitled to
cast at least one hundred percent (100%) of the total number of votes of the Association, both of
which must be part of the recorded amendment instrument.
