COVENANT FOR ASSESSMENTS
Section 10.1 Creation of the Lien and Personal Obligation of Assessments.

35

Each Owner hereby covenants and agrees, and each purchaser of any Lot by acceptance of
a deed therefore, whether or not it shall be so expressed in any such deed or other conveyance,
shall be deemed to covenant and agree to pay to the Association (or to a mortgage company or
other collection agency designated by the Association) the following: (a) annual assessments or
charges; (b) acquisition assessments; (c) special assessments for capital improvements; (d)
individual special assessments (including, without limitation interest and fines) levied against
individual Owners for violations of the Declaration, Design Guidelines or the Community-Wide
Standard or to reimburse the Association for extra costs for maintenance and repairs caused by the
willful or negligent acts of the individual Owner, his tenant(s) occupying his Lot, if applicable,
and their respective family, agents, guests and invitees, or for costs incurred by the Association
resulting from any Owner failing to comply with the terms and provisions hereof or maintenance
and repairs performed by the Association on behalf of some, but not all Members. All such
assessments shall be fixed, established and collected as hereinafter provided. The annual,
acquisition, benefitted, special capital, and individual special assessments, together with such
interest thereon and costs of collection thereof as hereinafter provided, shall be a charge on the
land and shall be a continuing lien upon each Lot against which each such assessment is made.
Each such assessment, together with late charges, collection costs, such interest thereon and cost
of collection thereof, including attorneys' fees, as hereinafter provided, shall also be the continuing
personal obligation of the person who was the Owner of such property at the time when the
assessment fell due.
Fines, not to exceed $1,000.00 per occurrence, shall be assessed upon the expiration of a
reasonable time after the date notice of such violation was sent to the violating Owner. In all
instances of violations, the Owner shall be responsible for correcting such violation within the time
noted in the violation notice, regardless as to whether the residence is occupied by the Owner or a
tenant. On occasion, fine amounts for certain violations may exceed $1,000.00 per occurrence
depending upon the severity and nature of the violation. Without limiting the foregoing, and by
way of example only, a violation that may result in a greater fine are Owners who house vicious
animals who attack and harm a person or another animal, Owners who use restricted items such as
fireworks or firearms that result in damages, injury, or death. The lien provided for herein shall
secure payment of fines not timely paid and the Owner shall also have personal liability for the
payment of same.

Section 10.2 Purpose of Assessments.
The assessments levied by the Association shall be used as follows: (a) for the purpose of
promoting the interests of the Association and the recreation, health and welfare of the residents
of the Property, and in particular for the improvement, repair and maintenance of the entry' ways
or any other properties, services and facilities devoted to this purpose and comprising or directly
relating to the use and enjoyment of the Common Properties, including, but not limited, to the
payment of taxes on and insurance in connection with the Common Properties, and the repair,
replacement and additions thereto; (b) for paying the cost of labor, equipment (including the
expense of leasing any equipment) and materials required for, and management and supervision
of, the Common Proper-ties; (c) for carrying out the duties of the Board of Directors of the
Association as set forth in Article XI hereafter including, hut. not limited to, the payment by the
Association of all assessments and charges payable in connection with sewer, water and garbage
36

pickup services and the installation and maintenance of lighting (if any) of the Common Properties;
(d) for paying the cost of maintenance of the monument sign for the Property, if any, in the event
the appropriate governmental authority refuses to maintain the same; or (e) for carrying out the
purposes of the Association as stated in its Certificate of Formation.
Section 10.3Basis and Amount of Annual Assessments.
10.3.1 The Board of Directors may fix the annual assessment at any amount equal
to or less than the maximum annual assessment for that year, as herein below provided.
The annual assessment for each Lot beginning with fiscal year 2020 shall be Five Hundred
Fifty and No/100 Dollars ($550.00). Commencing with the recording of this Declaration
and each year thereafter, the Board of Directors may set the amount of the maximum annual
assessment for that year (and for following years) for each Lot based upon the budgetary
and other known or presumed expenses of the Association. Notwithstanding, the
maximum annual assessment may not be increased more than fifty percent (50%) above
the maximum annual assessment for the previous year without a vote of the membership
taken in accordance with the provisions of Section 10.3.2.
10.3.2 Commencing with the recording of this Declaration, and in each year
thereafter, the Board of Directors may set the maximum annual assessment for the
following year for each Lot at an amount more than fifty percent (50%) above the
maximum annual assessment for the previous year; provided that any such increased
assessment shall be approved by the affirmative vote of fifty-one percent (51%) of the votes
of those Association Members who are voting, in person or by proxy, at a meeting duly
called for such purpose.
Section 10.4Working Capital / Acquisition Assessment
At any time, record title is transferred to any Owner (excluding Lot sales from Declarant
to a Builder), a Working Capital / Acquisition Assessment shall be paid to the Association by such
Owner at closing in the amount of Three Hundred Fifty and No/100 Dollars ($350.00) for each
Lot acquired. Working Capital / Acquisition Assessments are in addition to and, not in lieu of,
any other fees or assessment provided for herein. Working Capital/ Acquisition Assessments are
not refundable and shall be available for all necessary expenditures of the Association as may be
determined by the Board. In addition to the foregoing but still considered an assessment
hereunder, the Board may, at its sole discretion, enter into a contract with a managing agent to
oversee the daily operation and management of the Association. The managing agent may, and
probably will, have fees, which will be charged to an Owner for the transfer of a significant estate
or fee simple title to a Lot and the issuance of a "Resale Certificate" (herein so called). The
Association or its agent shall not be required to issue a Resale Certificate until payment for the
cost thereof has been received by the Association or its agent. Transfer fees and fees for the
issuance of a Resale Certificate shall in no event exceed $350.00 for each Lot being conveyed and
are not refundable and may not be regarded as a prepayment of or credit against regular or special
assessments, and are in addition to any other contribution which may exist or be established from
time to time. This Section does not obligate the Board or any third party to levy such fees.
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained hereinabove, transfer fees and fees for the
issuance of a Resale Certificate in connection with a transfer from Declarant to any Builder shall
37

in no event exceed $125.00 for each Lot conveyed to a Builder.
Section 10.5Spccial Assessments.
The Association may also levy in any assessment year a special assessment, applicable to
that year only, for the purpose of defraying, in whole or in part, the costs of any unbudgeted,
underbudgeted, unforeseen, extraordinary expenses or needs, construction or reconstruction,
maintenance, unexpected repair or replacement of a common amenity or element and/or capital
improvement upon the Common Properties, including the necessary fixtures and personal property
related thereto; provided that any such assessment shall not exceed fifty percent (50%) of the then
current Assessment rate. Any amount over fifty percent (50%) must be approved by the
affirmative vote of fifty-one percent (51%) of the votes of those Association Members, regardless
of Class, who are voting, in person or by proxy, at a meeting duly called for such purpose.
Section 10.6 Special Individual Assessments, Interest and Fines.
In the event that any Owner fails to comply with the provisions of this Declaration, the
Design Guidelines or the Community-Wide Standard and/or the Association incurs any cost or
expense in either enforcing said provisions against any such Owner or in carrying out the
obligations of any such Owner, the Association shall have the right to assess against such Owner
and the Lot of such Owner a special individual assessment in the amount of all such costs incurred
by the Association plus interest and/or in the amount of any violation fine(s) levied by the Board.
Special individual assessment, interest and fines to be paid by the applicable Owner upon demand
by the Association.
Section 10.7 Uniform Rate of Assessments.
Both annual and special assessments (excepting there from special individual assessments)
shall be fixed at a uniform rate for all Lots.
Section 10.8 Date of Commencement and Due Dates of Assessments.
The obligation to pay assessments commences as to each Lot: (a) upon acquisition of
record title to a Lot by the Owner thereof other than Declarant; the initial annual assessment levied
on each Lot shall be adjusted according to the number of months remaining in the fiscal year at
the time assessments commence on the Lot. Annual assessments shall be payable in advance on
the first (1st) business day of each January; provided, if the Board so elects, annual assessments
may be paid in monthly, quarterly, or semi-annual installments. The Board may require advance
payment or any difference in payment of all or any portion of the annual assessment at closing of
the transfer of title to a Lot. The due date or dates, if it is to be paid in installments, of any special
assessment under Section 10.5 shall be fixed in the respective resolution authorizing such
assessment. Payment of Assessments is not contingent upon the construction, production,
placement or existence of any amenity.

38

Section 10.9 Duties of the Board of Directors with Respect to Assessments.
10.9.1 The Board of Directors shall fix the amount of the annual assessment
against each Lot at least thirty (30) days in advance of each annual assessment period and
shall, at that time, prepare a roster of the Lots and assessments applicable thereto, which
shall be kept in the office of the Association and shall be open to inspection by any Owner.
10.9.2 Only if such assessment is an amount different from that charged for the
previous year, written notice of the assessment shall thereupon be delivered or mailed to
every Owner subject thereto (according the Association's then current records).
10.9.3 The Board of Directors shall, upon demand, cause to be furnished to any
Owner liable for said assessments a certificate in writing signed by an officer or agent of
the Association, setting forth whether said assessment has been paid. Such certificate
shall be conclusive evidence of payment of any assessment therein stated to have been
paid. A reasonable charge may be made by the Board or the Association's managing agent
for the issuance of such certificates.
Section 10.10 Assessment Lien to Secure Charges and Assessments.
All assessments, interest, late charges, collection fees and attorneys' fees, as provided for
herein, shall constitute and be secured by a separate and valid and subsisting assessment lien,
hereby created and fixed, and which shall exist upon and against each Lot and all improvements
and fixtures thereon, for the benefit of the Association. Notwithstanding any other provision
hereof, the lien to secure the payment of assessments or any other sums due hereunder and any
other lien which the Association may have on any Lot pursuant to this Declaration shall be
subordinate to the lien or equivalent security interest of any first lien mortgage or deed of trust on
any Lot.
Any foreclosure of any such superior lien under the power of sale of any mortgage, deed
of trust or other security instrument, or through court proceedings in which the Association has
been made a party, shall extinguish the liens securing maintenance charges or assessments or any
other sums due hereunder which became due and payable prior to such foreclosure date, but no
such foreclosure shall free any Lot from the liens securing assessments thereafter becoming due
and payable, nor shall the liability of any Member personally obligated to pay maintenance charges
or assessments which become due prior to such foreclosure be extinguished by any foreclosure,
nor shall the lien for future assessments or charges be affected in any manner.
Section 10.11 Effect of Nonpayment of Assessment.
If any assessment is not paid within thirty (30) days from the due date thereof, the same
shall bear interest from time to time, at the sole discretion of the Board, from the due date until
paid at the highest non-usurious rate allowed under the laws of the State of Texas, or other
applicable law, or if no such limitation imposed then at the rate of fifteen percent (15%) per annum,
and if placed in the hands of an attorney for collection or if collected through probate or other
judicial proceedings, there shall be reimbursed to the Association its reasonable attorneys' fees.
Should the Board set different terms for payment of Assessments the Board shall, at that time, set
39

the standard with regard to amount of time Owners shall have to submit the payment without being
considered late. Should any assessment provided for herein be payable in installments, the
Association may accelerate the entire assessment and demand immediate payment thereof. In
addition, a late charge shall be assessed against the non-paying Owner for each month that any
assessment remains unpaid. The late charge shall be in the amount of Twenty-Five and No/100
Dollars ($25.00) per month and shall serve to reimburse the Association for administrative
expenses and time involved in collecting and processing delinquent assessments. Monthly
charges may, and probably will, be charged by the Association's managing agent for
reimbursement of collection and processing of delinquent accounts. The Association's managing
agent may and probably will have other fees by which compensation is made to managing agent
for its efforts in collecting delinquent assessments. Such fees may include but, are not limited to,
collection fee charges, demand letter and certified mail processing charges and work with third
party collection agencies, certified and return receipt mailings and processing, payment plan
processing and monitoring and other. A charge of not less than Twenty-Five and No/100
Dollars ($25.00) or an amount equal to the bank charge incurred, if greater, shall be assessed
against an Owner for payment returned for insufficient funds or for any other reason. The
Association, in the Board's discretion, shall have the right to waive any part of or all of such
interest and/or fees owed to the Association.
Section 10.12 Collection and Enforcement.
The Association shall have a lien on each Lot securing payment of any assessment, together
with interest thereon as provided herein, reasonable attorneys' fees, late charges, collection fees
and costs incurred in the collection of same and the enforcement of said lien. The Board of
Directors shall take such action as it deems necessary to collect assessments and may settle and
compromise the same if deemed appropriate in the exercise of the Board's business judgment.
Such liens shall be effective as and, in the manner, provided for herein and shall have the priorities
established in this Declaration. The Board of Directors may bring an action at law against any
Owner personally obligated to pay an assessment or foreclose the lien against such Owner's Lot,
or both, and interest, costs and reasonable attorneys' fees of any such action shall be added to the
amount of such assessment.
Each Owner, by his acceptance of a deed to a Lot, hereby expressly vests in the Board of
Directors of the Association or its agent the right and power to bring all actions against such Owner
personally for the collection of such assessments as a debt and to enforce the aforesaid lien by all
methods available for the enforcement of such liens, including, but not limited to, nonjudicial
foreclosure pursuant to Texas Property Code Section 51.002 in force and effect on the date of this
Declaration, or in accordance with the prescribed manner for foreclosure of deed of trust liens
provided by any future amendment to such Section 51.002 or any other statute or article enacted
in substitution therefore, and such Owner hereby expressly grants to the Board of Directors a
private power of sale in connection with said lien. The Board is hereby appointed trustee, unless
and until the Board of Directors shall designate a substitute or successor trustee, as hereinafter
provided, to post the required notices as provided by law and conduct such foreclosure sale.

40

The lien provided for in this Section shall be in favor of the Association and shall have the
same effect as though each Owner had expressly granted to the Association a deed of trust lien as
well as a security interest in said Lot to secure the payment of the assessments provided for herein.
In addition to such notices as required by the aforesaid statute, the trustee shall mail to the Owner
of a Lot for which the assessment has not been paid, a copy of the notice of assessment lien prior
to the date any notice of sale is posted, by certified, return receipt requested, at the Lot or such
other address as the Board has been advised in writing for receipt of notices under this Declaration.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, any mandatory foreclosure requirements of Section 209 of the
Texas Property Code shall be adhered to by the foreclosing entity.
At any foreclosure, judicial or nonjudicial, the Association shall be entitled to bid up to the
amount of its lien, together with costs and attorneys' fees, and to apply as cash credit against its
bid all sums due the Association covered by the lien foreclosed. All foreclosure sales provided
for herein shall be subject to any then existing statutory right of redemption in favor of the former
Owner. From and after any such foreclosure, the former Owner or Owners, their heirs and
assigns, shall forthwith upon the making of such sale surrender and deliver possession of the
property so sold to the purchaser at such sale, and in the event of their failure to surrender
possession of said property upon demand, the purchaser, or his heirs or assigns, shall be entitled
to institute and maintain an action for forcible detainer of said property in the Justice of the Peace
Court in the Justice Precinct in which such Lot, or any part thereof, is situated.
The Board of Directors in any event is hereby authorized to appoint a substitute trustee, or
a successor trustee, to act in the place of the trustee without any formality other than the designation
in writing of a substitute or successor trustee; and the authority hereby conferred by the Board of
Directors shall extend to the appointment of other successor and substitute trustees successively
until the delinquent assessment or assessments have been paid in full, or until said property is sold,
and each substitute and successor trustee shall succeed to all the rights and powers of the original
trustee appointed by the Board of Directors or its agents.
Section 10.13 Homestead.
By acceptance of a deed thereto, the Owner and spouse thereof, if married at the time of
the conveyance or subsequently married, of a Lot shall be deemed to have waived any exemption
from liens created by this Declaration or the enforcement thereof by foreclosure or otherwise,
which may other be available by reason of the homestead exemption provisions of Texas law, if
for any reason such are applicable. This Section is not intended to limit or restrict in any way the
lien or rights granted to the Association by this Declaration, but construed in its favor.
Section 10.14 Omission of Assessments.
The omission of the Board of Directors, before the expiration of any assessment period, to
fix the assessments hereunder for that or the next assessment period, shall not be deemed a waiver
or modification in any respect of the provisions of this Declaration, or a release of any Owner from
the obligation to pay the assessments, or any installment thereof for that or any subsequent
assessment period, but the assessment fixed for the preceding assessment period shall continue
until a new assessment is fixed or levied by the Board.
41

Section 10.15 Reserve Fund.
10.15.1 The Association, after the Declarant Control Period, shall establish and
maintain a Reserve Fund for the periodic maintenance or improvements of the Common
Properties and for any need of the Association. A Reserve Fund as described in this Section
is not the Working Capital and/or Acquisition Assessment noted in Section 10.4 above.
During the Declarant Control Period, the Declarant has no obligation to establish or fund a
Reserve Fund; Notwithstanding, should any such fund be established, a separate account
shall be required to hold said funds apart from the general or normal Operating account.
The Reserve Fund may be funded from Assessments collected but, may not be funded from
Working Capital / Acquisition Assessments collected during the Declarant Control Period
without the Declarant's approval. After the Declarant Control Period ends, Working
Capital / Acquisition Assessments may be used to establish and/or fund a Reserve account
if no such account exists. Subject to the provisions of Section 10.3 above, the Board may
at any time ratably increase or decrease the amounts of regular annual assessments in
accordance with this Declaration to such level as shall be reasonably necessary in the
judgment of the Board to cover obligations of the Association under this Declaration,
including provisions for funding reasonable reserves. So long as the Board exercises
business judgment in determining the amount or necessity of the reserve fund, the amount
held in reserves shall be considered adequate.
10.15.2 The Association shall establish a general Operating account for the initial
operation of the Common Properties.
Section 10.16 Exempt Property.
The following property subject to this Declaration shall be exempted from the assessments,
charges and liens created herein:
10.16.1

All properties dedicated and accepted by the local public authority
and devoted to public use; and

10.16.2

All Lots and/or Property owned by Declarant, subject to the terms
of Sections 10.17 and 10.18 below; and

10.16.2

All Common Properties.

Section 10.17 Declarant Subsidy.
Declarant may, but shall not be obligated to, pay a subsidy to the Association in order to
reduce the total annual assessment which would otherwise be necessary to be levied against all
Lots to cover the estimated expenses of the Association (including reserve contributions, if any).
Any such subsidy shall be disclosed as a line item in the income portion of the budget and may be
treated by the Declarant, in its sole discretion, as a loan from the Declarant to the Association or
as an advance against future assessments due or as a contribution.

42

Prior to Declarant subsidizing the Association, Declarant may require the Association to
from all sources to include, but is not limited to, revenues from the operation of
monies
apply
Common Properties, Working Capital / Acquisition Assessments, guest fees, user fees, and the
assessments levied against the Owners of Lots, other than the Declarant as well as general reserve
funds should the same exist. Any sums paid by the Declarant to the Association to fund the
"deficiency" of the Association or any sums paid by the Declarant in the form of cash or in-kind
services or materials. Any subsidy provided may be considered by the Declarant as a loan subject
to the terms as set forth in the Declaration or the Declarant's Reservations and Representations, if
applicable and the Association shall cooperate, fully, with the repayment of any such loan upon
the Declarant's request. After termination of the Class B membership, Declarant shall pay
assessments on its unsold Lots in the same manner as any other Owner.
Section 10.18Dec1arant's Assessment.
Notwithstanding any provision of this Declaration or the Certificate of Formation or
Bylaws to the contrary, so long as there is Class B membership in the Association, the Declarant
is not subject to assessments.
