Section 2.1 Residential Use.
The Property shall be used for single-family residential purposes and home office only and
accessory uses. No building or other structure shall be erected, altered, placed or permitted to
remain on any Lot other than one (1) detached single-family residence per Lot, which residence
may not exceed the height set forth in any city of Princeton ordinance or this Declaration, and a
private garage as provided below. Any building or structure to be placed or constructed on a Lot
is subject to approval in writing by the Architectural Control Committee under Article III. Other
detached structures such as garages, shops, storage. mother-in-law, guest or maid quarters, shall
require the prior written consent of the Architectural Control Committee. As noted in Section
2.2.1 below, no short-term rentals or leases of any kind are allowed.
Section 2.2 Single-Family Use.
Except as otherwise provided in this Section2.2, (i) each single family residence may be
occupied only by persons living and cooking together as a single housekeeping unit, together with
any household employees, and (ii) except for families consisting of persons related by blood,
adoption, or marriage (a "Family Unit"), no more than two persons per bedroom may occupy the
same residence on a regular and consistent basis.
Section 2.2.1 Leasing. No more than ten percent (10%) of the residences within the
Subdivision may be leased to a non-Owner occupant at any given time without the express written
consent and approval of the Board, which may be withheld in the Board's sole and absolute
discretion. The Board may grant a variance of this use restriction on a case by case basis at the
6

sole and absolute discretion of the Board. An Owner must complete an application and deliver a
the application and a copy of any proposed lease for approval by the Board as a condition to the
effectiveness of such lease, and any proposed lease must include a requirement that the tenant and
any occupants of a residence by such lease fully comply with the terms of this Declaration.
Owners who rent or lease their residence are required to execute a written lease agreement, signed
by the tenant and a copy provided to the Association prior to the tenant's possession of the
residence. Notwithstanding the foregoing, during the Declarant Control Period, this Section may
not be enforced without the express written consent of Declarant. Any lease allowed by Declarant
during the Declarant Control Period shall not be counted as part of the ten percent (10%) maximum
hereunder as long as Owner can provide a valid signed lease with a start date prior to the end of
the Declarant Control Period. The lease shall contain, at minimum, the following (the "Required
Lease Terms"):
a. Term of Lease. Initial term of the lease shall not be less than one (1) year.
b. Entire Residence. The property leased includes the entire residence. No shortterm leasing, bed and breakfast, vacation or house swapping rentals or leasing
is allowed.
c. Single Family. Lease is restricted to single family per Section 2.2 above. Owner
shall provide to the Association or its managing agent the names and contact
information for the tenants.
d. Abide by Rules. The Owner must make available to the tenant copies of the
Governing Documents as described in Article 1, Section (1) and all amendments
thereto. Tenant must agree to abide by all Association rules, regulations, and
policies, and must acknowledge that failure to do so may constitute a default under
the lease terms and agreement. Owner must obtain a signed acknowledgment from
the tenant that this section of the CCR's has been explained in detail.
e. Assignment. No assignment or sub leasing is allowed.
f. Renter's Insurance Required. Tenant must carry renter's insurance.
g. Owner Responsibility. Owner shall be responsible at all times for his tenant, all
occupants and guests. The maintenance and upkeep of the residence and Lot shall
be borne by the Owner. Should the tenant violate a rule, regulation, or policy, and
a violation notice or Notice of Fine is sent, the Owner shall be responsible for
ensuring the tenant's compliance and ensuring the violation is immediately abated.
Should a fine for non-compliance result, the Owner shall be responsible for payment
to the Association for all fines or any monetary expense the Association may incur
for the enforcement and abatement of a violation. Fine(s) will be levied against the
Owner's account for payment to the Association and shall be subject to collections
as may be set forth in this Declaration or any existing collection policy of the
Association which may be adopted at any time and from time to time.
Whether or not it is so stated in a lease, every lease is subject to this Declaration and any rules,
regulations, design guidelines or other dedicatory instruments promulgated hereunder. An Owner
is responsible for providing its tenant with copies of this Declaration, and any and all rules,
regulations, design guidelines or other dedicatory instruments promulgated hereunder, and
notifying its tenant of changes thereto. Failure by the tenant or his invitees to comply with this
Declaration and any rules, regulations, design guidelines or other dedicatory instruments
7

promulgated hereunder is deemed to be a default under the lease. When the Association notifies
an Owner of its tenant's violation, the Owner will promptly obtain his tenant's compliance or
exercise its rights as a landlord for tenant's breach of lease. If the tenant's violation continues or
is repeated, and if the Owner is unable, unwilling, or unavailable to obtain his tenant's compliance,
then the Association has the power and right (but is not obligated) to pursue the remedies of a
landlord under the lease or state law for the default, including eviction of the tenant. THE
OWNER OF A LEASED LOT IS LIABLE TO THE ASSOCIATION FOR ANY EXPENSES
INCURRED BY THE ASSOCIATION IN CONNECTION WITH ENFORCEMENT OF THIS
DECLARATION, AND ANY AND ALL RULES, REGULATIONS, DESIGN GUIDELINES
OR OTHER DEDICATORY INSTRUMENTS PROMULGATED IIEREUNDER AGAINST
HIS TENANT. The Board may reject any proposed lease that would result in more than twenty
percent (20%) of the residences in the Subdivision being leased to non-Owner occupants or which
fail to include the Required Lease Terms. Notwithstanding the foregoing or anything to the
contrary contained herein, during the Declarant Control Period, neither Declarant nor any Builder
shall be subject to the leasing restriction contained in this Section 2.5(p) with respect to any Lot
owned by Builder, and Lots owned by Builder or Declarant during the Declarant Control Period
that are leased by Declarant or such Builder shall not be accounted for in determining the twenty
percent (20%) cap on leased residences in the Subdivision. The Association is not liable to the
Owner for any damages, including lost rents, suffered by the Owner in relation to the Association's
enforcement of this Declaration, and any and all rules, regulations, design guidelines or other
dedicatory instruments promulgated hereunder against the Owner's tenant.
Section 2.3 Garage Required.
Each residence shall have an enclosed garage and shall conform to the requirements set
forth in the Design Guidelines. The garage shall conform in design and materials with the main
structure and may not be used as a living quarter at any time or for the purpose of conducting
business of any kind. The following garage doors shall be allowed upon written consent of the
Reviewer (i) Metal garage doors, (ii) metal with a wood overlay, and (iii) wood garage doors.
Color and garage door style should complement the main residence. The prior written consent of
the Reviewer shall be required prior to installation, modification, or change of any garage door.
Section 2.4 Driveways.
All driveways shall be surfaced with concrete. No widening of driveway is allowed
without the proper written consent of the Reviewer. No stain or color variations or patterned
concrete of driveways or sidewalks shall be allowed without the express written consent of the
Reviewer.
Section 2.5 Uses Specifically Prohibited.
(a)
No temporary or permanent structure including, but not limited to, children's play
structures, play houses, and play sets, dog houses, greenhouses, sports equipment, residences,
shop, storage building, gazebos, pergolas, cabanas, covered patios, trailer or mobile home, pools,
spas, and other water features, buildings for storage of lawn maintenance equipment, or any kind
of improvement of a temporary or permanent character shall be permitted on any Lot without the
express written consent of the Reviewer, except that dog houses and small, low-lying green houses
8

that are not visible over the fence are allowed and do not require the consent of the Reviewer to
install. As a Community Wide Standard, all structures, regardless of type, shall be subject to, but
not limited to, placement, height, styles, types, and use restrictions and setbacks which may vary
or be greater than the requirement of any City restrictions or rules. Owners are hereby advised
the Association's restrictions may have higher and stricter standards for any temporary or
permanent structures, regardless of type or use. At all times the higher standard shall prevail and
be upheld unless a written variance by Declarant or the Architectural Review Committee is
granted. Homeowners Association. Variances may be temporary or peinianent and the written
variance, when issued, shall clearly identify the type of variance granted. As a general rule, no
structure whether temporary or permanent shall be allowed if such structure would be visible from
the front of the residence or the street. As a standard throughout the community, structures that
exceed the height of the existing fence may be restricted to placement behind the residence so the
structure is not visible from the front of the residence or street. Residences on corner Lots may
be subject to greater restrictions than other Lots. All structures with regard to placement are subject
to the discretion of the Reviewer.
(b) Portable or permanent basketball goals may only be allowed upon prior written
consent of the Reviewer. The allowance of and placement of any temporary or peimanent
basketball goal is at the sole discretion of the Architectural Review Committee. The Architectural
Review Committee may require the storage of portable basketball goals when not in use and for
permanent goals, may require basketball goals with crank poles allowing for the goal to be cranked
down when not in use. No portable basketball goals may be played or kept in the street or in a
manner that blocks a sidewalk and may not be placed in the grass area located between the front
building line and street. Goals placed or left in any unauthorized area is subject to removal by the
Association at the sole expense and liability of the Owner of the goal. Costs associated with the
removal of any goal shall be billed back to the Owners account for full reimbursement to the
Association. Goals must be kept in good repair at all times and may not use unsightly weights
such as tires, sand bags, or rocks unless the Owner can provide written proof from the manufacturer
that such weights are the recommended means to weight down the goal. The Property address
must be displayed on the front side of the pole for easy identification.
(c) All requests, regardless of type, are reviewed on a case by case basis and the approval
or variance granted to one Owner does not obligate the Architectural Review Committee to provide
the same variance or approval to another Owner. No improvements, installation, construction,
modification, addition, planting, or other change of any kind or type to the exterior of a residence
or Lot may be done without the express written consent of the Architectural Review Committee.
Failure to obtain prior written consent shall constitute a violation subject to immediate fines after
the Association submits one (1) written notice to an Owner in violation that outlines the amount
of the fine and describes the violation (herein referred to as a "Notice of Fine Warning"). Such
fines shall not be less than $100.00 and shall not exceed $1,000.00 per violation occurrence.
(d) Builders or contractors may have temporary improvements (such as a sales office
and/or construction trailer) on a given Lot during construction of the residence on that Lot or on a
different Lot as agreed to between the Builder or contractor and Declarant and/or as otherwise set
Out in the Design Guidelines. Excluding Builders and Contractors, no building material of any
kind or character shall be placed or stored upon the Property until the Owner thereof is ready to
commence construction of improvements, and then such material shall be placed on the driveway
9

or if landscaping has not yet been installed, within the property lines of the Lot upon which the
improvements are to be erected.
(e)
Except as otherwise provided in this Section, no vehicle may be parked or left upon
any portion of a Lot except in a garage or on a driveway. Due to the often-controversial nature
of on-street parking, the Board of Directors or the Reviewer shall have the sole discretion to review
and determine potential non-compliance on a case by case basis. Parking in front of mail boxes,
blocking driveways, intersections, or other publicly accessed areas is prohibited.
Notwithstanding the above, short-term and visitor parking of a vehicle may be parked outside of
an enclosed garage temporarily and irregularly to accommodate such use. The Board, in its
discretion, may enact additional rules governing such temporary, irregular use or, in the absence
of specific rules, shall have discretion in detci mining what constitutes permissible parking under
such circumstances. This Section shall not apply to parking, for purposes of emergency vehicle
repairs, construction, service, and delivery vehicles for periods necessary to perform the services
or make a delivery and shall exclude first responders and Owners driving vehicles used for law
enforcement, fire officials, medical or ambulance workers, or such other related vehicles which
shall be reviewed and considered at the sole discretion of the Board.
As used in this Section, the term "vehicles" includes, without limitation, automobiles, trucks,
boats, trailers, motorcycles, campers, vans, and recreational vehicles. Absolutely no semi-trucks
with or without trailers may park within the community. Violation of this rule will result in an
immediate Notice of Fine Warning after which a fine for non-compliance with an Association rule
may be levied. Fine amounts may vary depending upon the severity of the violation. Except as
provided below, the following vehicles may not be parked on any street within the Property. and
may be parked only in an enclosed garage or temporarily for the purpose of cleaning, loading, or
unloading and only for a period not to exceed twenty-four hours. If driveways may be accessed
by an alley (provided there is at least one (1) additional space outside of the garage for parking in
the rear of the Lot and provided such vehicles are twenty feet (20') or less in length or may be
safely maneuvered into and out of the driveway): recreational vehicles, mobile homes, trailers, and
campers must be parked in the back of the residence during that twenty-four-hour period for
loading or unloading only. Stored vehicles, unless kept within an enclosed garage, trucks with
tonnage in excess of one (1) ton, commercial vehicles, regardless of type, size, weight, or purpose,
(including all vehicles with commercial lettering or logos) are prohibited without the express
written permission of the Reviewer or Board of Directors. Unlicensed or inoperable vehicles
must be kept in enclosed garages and may not be visible at any time. "Sports utility vehicles"
and "mini-vans" (as such vehicles are commonly referred to, as determined in the Board's
discretion) and pick-up trucks without commercial writing or logos shall be treated as automobiles
and may be parked outside of enclosed garages.
(0 Boats may be kept for a period of not more than twenty-four hours for the purpose of
cleaning or loading and unloading only. No boat, trailer, cargo trailer, water sport vehicles, or
any other vehicle or utility or sport vehicle or item, regardless of type, may be parked or stored on
the street, in the driveway, or in any side or rear yard.
(g) Declarant and Builders are excluded from vehicle and parking rules; Notwithstanding,
ordinary care shall be taken to ensure vehicles do not damage streets, curbs, sidewalks, Common
Properties, or adjoining Lots or residences, and areas of heavy traffic for construction related
10

equipment and vehicles is kept clean and do not block the flow of traffic for neighboring residences
and streets, driveways, mailboxes, or any area in which Owners require and have right-of-way
rights and privileges. No Owner shall ever interfere with a Builder or Declarant, and may not
interfere with the actions of the Declarant or any development related activities. Violations of
this type shall carry the highest possible fine and may result in further actions by the Declarant
and/or the Association. Violation of any rule, regulation, or policy will result in a violation notice
and may result in a fine for non-compliance with an Association rule, regulation, or policy.
Violations may be issued based on curable or non-curable non-compliance with a rule, regulation,
or policy. Notice structure and fine amounts and increments may vary for non-curable violations.

The Association will utilize towing subject to all applicable laws and ordinances
available to it for the towing of any unauthorized vehicle. If a vehicle is towed, it will
be at the sole expense of the Owner of the vehicle and Owner assumes all risk and
responsibility for the vehicle as well as any personal items within the vehicle at the time
the vehicle is towed.

(h)
No vehicle of any size which transports flammable or explosive cargo may be kept
or parked on the Property at any time, except for use by or on behalf of Declarant in connection
with the development of the Property or by a Builder or contractor in connection with the
construction of improvements on a Lot.
(i)
No animals or livestock of any kind shall be raised, bred or kept on the Property for
commercial purposes or for. Dogs, cats or other small and usual household pets may be kept for
the purpose of providing companionship for the private family; however, those pets which are
permitted to roam free, or, in the sole discretion of the Board and to the extent permitted under
applicable law, constitute a nuisance to the occupants of other Lots or show aggressive or vicious
tendencies or attacks a person or another animal, are subject to immediate removal upon written
order from the Board; provided, in no event shall the Board or Association be required to remove
any pet from the Subdivision. Owners are hereby placed on notice that fines as well as other
possible enforcement actions including, but not limited to, prompt removal of the animal, shall be
enforced against any Owner housing such an animal. If an Owner has failed to remove its pet
from the Subdivision pursuant to any order of removal issued by the Board within three (3) days
after such order is delivered to an Owner, such Owner shall be subject to fines hereunder or as may
be established by the Board, and the Board may proceed with efforts to immediately remove the
pet that is the subject to the order from the Subdivision. Notwithstanding anything contained
herein to the contrary, the Board in its sole discretion and without incurring any further duty or
obligation to Owners or occupants within the Property, may decide to take no action and refer
complaining parties to the appropriate municipal or governmental authorities for handling and final
disposition. Owners are hereby put on notice that enforcing complaints of barking or howling
dogs or noise from animals are difficult violations to enforce. The Association will send notices
and follow through up to and including the fine process so long as the Board of Directors deems it
appropriate and approves of such action; Notwithstanding, Owners should not place unreasonable
expectations on the Board or its managing agent in attempting to enforce this rule. Owners should
be mindful of their neighbors and be prepared to keep their pets under control at all times when
outside the confines of the residence or when walking your pet within the Subdivision.
11

IF ANY ANIMAL OR PET IS A NUISANCE IN THE SUBDIVISION, OWNERS ARE
ENCOURAGED TO CONTACT THEIR LOCAL ANIMAL CONTROL AUTHORITY FOR
ASSISTANCE. The Association shall have no liability or obligation to ensure removal of a pet

from the Subdivision that is a nuisance and cannot be held liable or responsible if any enforcement
actions taken by the Association under this Section2.5(d) are unsuccessful. EACH OWNER BY
ACCEPTANCE OF TITLE TO ITS LOT OR OCCUPANCY OF A RESIDENCE THEREON
HEREBY RELEASES AND WAIVES THE ASSOCIATION, DECLARANT, THE BOARD
AND/OR ITS MANAGING AGENT AND THEIR RESPECTIVE MEMBERS, EMPLOYEES,
DESIGNEES, ADMINISTRATORS, INSPECTORS, CONTRACTORS, AND AGENTS, AND
AGREES TO INDEMNIFY AND DEFEND SAME AND HOLD THEM HARMLESS FROM AND
AGAINST ANY CLAIMS, LIABILITIES, LOSS, DAMAGE, COSTS AND EXPENSES,
INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO ATTORNEYS' FEES, IN CONNECTION WITH OR
ARISING OUT OF ANY ACTIONS OR ATTACK BY OWNER'S PET OR BY ANY PET
RESIDING ON AN OWNER'S LOT WITHIN THE SUBDIVISION. ALL BREEDS OF PETS
THAT ARE DETERMINED TO BE AGGRESSIVE OR VICIOUS BREEDS BY THE BOARD OR
ANY APPLICABLE GOVERNMENTAL AUTHORITY (INCLUDING SPECIFICALLY,
WITHOUT LIMITATION, PIT BULLS OR ROTTWEILERS) ARE STRICTLY PROHIBITED
WITHIN THE SUBDIVISION AND ARE DEEMED TO BE A NUISANCE AND SUBJECT TO
REMOVAL PROVISIONS SET FORTH HEREIN. Any Owner of a pet that attacks another person

or animal within the Subdivision is subject to a $1,000 fine per occurrence (each day of violation
being deemed to be an occurrence), whether or not such Owner's pet inflicted harm on a person.
Pets shall be kept on a leash or otherwise confined inside a fenced area whenever outside the
residence. Pets shall be registered, licensed and inoculated as required by law and must be
properly tagged for identification. It is the Owner's responsibility to keep the front of their Lot
clean and free of pet debris and to pick up and properly dispose of their pet's waste wherever
deposited. Notwithstanding anything seemingly herein to the contrary, no more than three (3)
household pets will be permitted on each Lot. No potbellied pigs, pigs, rodents, snakes, skunks,
chickens, or other poultry of any kind, no undomesticated animal, no wild or reptilian animals of
any kind are allowed to be kept, bred, or housed in an Owner's residence or on an Owner's Lot
The Declarant and the Board reserve the right to determine what animal outside of domesticated
dogs and cats may be allowed.
No Lot or other area on the Property shall be used as a dumping ground for rubbish
or a site for the accumulation of unsightly materials of any kind, including, without limitation
broken or rusty equipment, disassembled or inoperative cars, other vehicles or discarded
appliances and furniture. The Association, when applicable or when possible or feasible, shall
correct or remove any item or items violating this section and the cost thereof shall be billed back
to the Owner and shall be added to the Owner's account and payable to the Association
immediately upon presentation of a statement of amount due by e-mail and/or U.S. mail. Trash,
garbage or other waste shall be kept in sanitary containers at all times and shall be kept out of
public view or screened from view of the street and any adjacent Lot or Common Properties. The
construction or installation of concrete pads for trash or recycle cans requires prior written consent
of the Reviewer. All such pads shall be screened with wood fencing or live screening subject to
the approval of the Architectural Review Committee. Oversized objects that cannot fit into
available trash containers should be kept out of sight until day of trash pickup. Items such as
furniture and green waste may not be placed outside for pickup more than twenty-four hours before
the scheduled pickup service. Items not picked up on time need to be removed by the Owner and
12

placed out of sight or hauled off. All incinerators or other equipment for the storage or other
disposal of such material shall be kept in clean and sanitary condition. Materials incident to
construction of improvements may be stored on Lots during construction so long as construction
progresses without undue delay and waste storage bins are utilized.

The Declarant or Board of Directors may, after notice is served either by mail, email, or
by posting on the door of the residence, initiate self-help actions to abate violations if
Owners or Builders fail to abate the violation in a sufficient and/or timely manner. The
costs of such self-help actions shall be billed back to the Owner's account and shall be
due and payable to the Association upon receipt of notice and invoice from the
Association or its managing agent.
(k)
No air-conditioning apparatus shall be installed on the ground in front of a
residence. No air-conditioning apparatus shall be attached to any wall or window of a residence
that is visible to the public or neighboring unit. All air-conditioning equipment must be installed
in the rear yard, side yard or screened in a manner so as not to be seen.
(1)
The erection, construction, placement or installation of any television, radio or
other electronic tower, serial, antenna, satellite dish or device of any type for the reception or
transmission of radio or television broadcast signals or other means of communication upon a Lot
or upon any improvement thereon is prohibited, except that this prohibition shall not apply to those
antennae specifically covered by 47 C.F.R. Part 1, Subpart S, Section 1.4000 (or any successor
provision) promulgated under the Telecommunications Act of 1996, as amended from time to time.
The Board shall be empowered to adopt rules governing the types of antennae that are permissible
hereunder and establishing reasonable, non-discriminatory restrictions relating to safety, location
and maintenance of antennae.
To the extent that reception of an acceptable signal would not be impaired or the cost of
installation would not be unreasonably increased, an antenna permissible pursuant to the
Declaration or the rules of the Association may only be installed in a side or rear yard location, not
visible from the street or neighboring property, and integrated with the residence and surrounding
landscape. Antennae shall be installed in compliance with all state and local laws and regulations,
including zoning, land-use and building regulations.
(m)
No Lot or improvement thereon shall be used for commercial or manufacturing
purposes of any kind other than a small home office. Nothing in this subparagraph shall prohibit
a Builder's use of a residence as a sales office until such Builder's last residence on the Property
is sold and closed. Nothing in this subparagraph shall prohibit an Owner's use of a residence for
quiet, inoffensive activities such as a small home office, tutoring or giving lessons such as art or
music, so long as such activities are consistent with the residential character of the Property, do
not constitute a nuisance, or a hazardous or offensive use, or threaten the security or safety of
others within the Property, as determined in the Board's discretion, and do not materially increase
the number of cars parked on the street.

13

(n)
No fence, wall, hedge or shrub planting which obstructs sight lines at elevations
three
feet
(3') and six feet (6') above the roadway shall be placed or permitted to remain
between
on any corner Lot within the triangular area formed by the street right-of-way lines and a line
connecting them at points a minimum of ten feet (10') from the intersection of the street right-ofway lines, or, in the case of a rounded property corner, from the intersection of the street right-ofway lines as extended. The same sight-line limitations shall apply on any lot within ten (10) feet
from the intersection of a street right-of-way line with the edge of a private driveway or alley
pavement. No tree shall be permitted to remain within such distance of such intersections unless
the foliage line is maintained at least eight feet (8') or a sufficient height to prevent obstruction of
such sight lines.
(o)
No building previously constructed elsewhere shall be moved onto any Lot without
the express written consent of the Reviewer, it being the intention that only new construction be
placed and erected thereon.
No sign of any kind shall be displayed to the public view on any Lot, except: (i)
(p)
political signs which may be placed on the Lot no earlier than six (6) weeks prior to an election
and which must be removed within two (2) weeks after the election for which such sign is
displayed; (ii) one (1) professional security service sign of not more than one square foot; (iii) one
(1) sign of not more than five square feet advertising the property for rent or sale during any period
that the Lot actually is for rent or sale; or (iv) signs used by a Builder to advertise the Property
during the construction and sales period, each of which shall, in any event, comply with all statutes,
laws or ordinances governing same. The Board of Directors or its agents shall have the right to
remove any sign, banner, billboard or other advertising structure that does not comply with the
above, and in so doing shall not be subject to any liability for trespass or otherwise in connection
with such removal.
(q)
The drying of clothes in public view is prohibited. Clothes lines are prohibited.
Items hung on the outside of fences and visible to the public are prohibited.
(r)
Wood used for fireplace, barbeque, or other use must be stacked neatly and
screened from public view. The Owner is responsible for ensuring that such wood stack is kept
free of rodents.
(s)
No Owner shall perform, fail to perform, or permit anything to be done or not done
on such Owner's Lot which would violate any laws, statutes, ordinances or regulations of any kind
or character.
Section 2.6 Minimum Floor Area, Lot Dimensions, Lot Area, Maximum Height
Regulations, Set Back and Yard Restrictions.
The total air-conditioned living area of the main residential structure constructed on each
Lot, as measured to the outside of exterior walls but exclusive of open porches, garages, patios and
detached accessory buildings, shall be in accordance with the City of Princeton Planned
Development Ordinance 2009-07-28, as modified and amended by the City of Princeton Ordinance
No. 2019-06-24-01, but in no event shall be less than as follows:
14

(a) for 50' Lots a maximum of 25% of all residences shall be a minimum of 1,300 to
1,399 square feet. All others shall be a minimum of 1,400 square feet or greater.
Builders may NOT assume use of the lower squarefootagefor their plans without
the express written consent of the Declarant or Reviewer.
(b) for 60' Lots a minimum of 1,500 square feet or greater is required.
(c) for 75' Lots a minimum of 1,800 square feet or greater is required.
(d) for 80' Lots, a minimum of 2,000 square feet or greater is required.
(e) for Zero Lot Line Lots of approximately 35' in Lot width a minimum of 1,000 square
feet are required.
Development of the Lots, including minimum area of the Lot, minimum Lot width,
minimum Lot depth, minimum Front Yard, minimum side yard setback, minimum rear yard
setback, maximum building height, and maximum Lot coverage shall be in accordance with the
City of Princeton Planned Development Ordinance 2009-07-28 (as modified and amended by the
City of Princeton Ordinance No. 2019-06-24-01), but in no event shall be less than as follows:

Minimum Lot
Area in Square
Feet
Minimum Lot
Width for Lots
Not Fronting on
a Cul-de-Sac or
Inside Curve
Minimum Lot
Width for Lots
Fronting
on
Cul-de-Sac or
Inside Curve
Minimum Lot
Depth
Minimum Front
Yard
Minimum Side
Yard Setback
(Interior Side
Yards)

50' Lots

60' Lots

75' Lots

100' Lots

5,500 SF

6,600 SF

9,000 SF

20,000 SF

Zero Lot Line
Lots
3,200 SF

50 Feet

60 Feet

75 Feet

80 Feet

35 Feet

45 Feet

55 Feet

70 Feet

75 feet

30 Feet

90 Feet

100 Feet

100 Feet

150 Feet

75 Feet

20 Feet

20 Feet

25 Feet

25 Feet

15 Feet

5 feet on one
side; 5 feet on
the other side;
except 5 feet
on the interior

5 feet on one 10% of lot 10% of
side; 5 feet on width
width
the other side;
except 5 feet
on the interior

lot 10 foot'

10-foot minimum separation, but a ten-foot side yard setback is not required on each interior side yard.

15

side yard on a side yard on a
corner Lot
corner lot
Minimum Side 15 feet
15 Feet
Yard Setback
(Corner
Side
Yards)
Minimum Rear 10 Feet
10 Feet
Yard Setback
Maximum
35 feet and 2 35 feet and 2
Building
stories
stories
Height
Maximum Lot 60%
55%
Coverage

15 Feet

15 Feet

15 Feet

15 Feet

20 Feet

10 Feet

35 feet and 2 35 feet and 2
stories
stories

35 feet and 2
stories

50%

65%

30%

All corner side yard setbacks may include separately platted Common Properties, shall be
deemed to be on the same lot as the residential use for purposes of meeting the corner side yard
setback requirement. Minimum lot width shall be measured at the front yard setback line. All
setbacks are measured from the property line. On corner lots, the front yard setback shall apply
only along the street that the primary entrance to the residence faces. Every part of a required side
yard shall be open and unobstructed (except for accessory buildings, air conditioning units, and
ordinary projections of window wills, belt courses, cornices, and other architectural features as
approved in writing by the Architectural Review Committee), not more than eighteen inches (18")
into the required side yard, and roof eaves projecting not more than thirty-six inches (36") into the
required side yard. The required rear yard shall be open and unobstructed from a point thirty inches
(30") above the average elevation of the graded rear yard. Eaves, covered porches, and roof
extensions without structural support in the rear yard may extend into the rear yard a distance not
to exceed four feet (4'). The minimum front yard setback and minimum rear yard setback for
residential lots served by alleys may be decreased by five feet (5'), but no single family detached
residential home or zero lot line residence shall have less than a twenty foot (20') front setback.
Section 2.7 Fences and Walls.
Permits from City of Princeton are required prior to any installation, alteration, addition or
change to a fence. Any repair or maintenance must be done with similar materials unless
replacing the entire fence notwithstanding permit from the City of Princeton and prior written
approval of the Reviewer shall be required for any installation, alteration, addition, or change
including, but not limited to, staining or re-staining of fence. Approval for minor repairs such as
replacing broken pickets, etc., or up righting a leaning or fallen panel is not required. Fences and
walls are prohibited in drainage easements. Refer to Section 1.2 of Exhibit C, Design Guidelines
for rules on material types, style, height, and other restrictions for fencing. No chain link, vinyl
fences, or barbed wire fences are permitted except on the Common Properties or any school
property. No fence or wall shall be permitted to extend nearer to any street than the front of any
residence; Notwithstanding, the Architectural Review Committee may require the fence to be set
back from the front of the residence up to fifteen feet (15') when in the sole discretion of the
Reviewer such a setback is warranted. Generally, all side yard fencing on corner Lots shall run
parallel to the curb and may be placed no nearer than five feet (5') to the side Lot line and shall not
extend beyond a point of five feet (5') from the front of the residence on any side in order to avoid
16

impeding any line of sight or other annoyances or nuisances to adjoining neighbors. Fences or
walls erected by Declarant shall become the property of the Owner of the Lot on which the same
are erected and as such shall be maintained and repaired by such Owner except as is provided in
Article IV and Article IX. Wall easements shall be kept clear and may not contain any planting,
structure, or other items. Occasionally, an Owner may be allowed to place items within an
easement; Notwithstanding, certain additional permissions and requirements shall apply for any
such request.
No portion of any fence shall extend more than six feet (6') in height without the express
written consent of the Reviewer except that step ups and step downs to adjust for grade shall be
allowed. No fencing of the front yard is allowed. The Reviewer may, at their sole discretion,
allow a maximum of eight-foot (8') foot fencing if fence heights of eight feet for City of Princeton
are allowed. Decisions of the Reviewer may be based solely on aesthetic appearances and
considered on a case by case basis. The Reviewer, at its sole discretion, may require an Owner
to obtain and present a permit from the City prior to initiating any review or considering any
approval.
All fences shall be maintained in good condition and meet the minimum standards set forth
in this Declaration and the City of Princeton code of ordinances. All fences shall comply with the
following:
(i)
Fences or any part thereof, shall not be more than twenty percent (20%) out of
vertical alignment.
(ii) Damaged, removed, or missing portions of a fence shall be replaced or repaired with
comparable materials to the remaining portion.
(iii) The Owner of any fence, existing or new, shall be responsible for the removal of any
and all graffiti.
(iv) Any and all plants, flowers, vegetation of any kind and/or weeds, shall be kept clear
of fences and shall not be allowed to grow into, under, or over a fence. The Association will
remove any such plant materials regardless of type and the cost of removal shall be billed back to
the Owner as a Special Individual Assessment.
(v)

Wood fences shall be regularly stained to maintain in good, aesthetic condition.

17

(vi) It shall be a violation of the City of Princeton and of this Declaration to fail to maintain a
fence in good condition by failing to meet any of the requirements of the City of Princeton and
this Declaration. Any damage, deterioration, or unaligned condition, graffiti or vegetation or any
other disrepair shall be violated by the Association and the Association shall report all such
disrepair to the City of Princeton.
THE ARCHITECTURAL REVIEW COMMITTEE MAY REQUIRE A BUILDER OR OWNER TO
PROVIDE A COPY OF A CITY PERMIT, NEIGHBOR CONSENT, AUTHORIZATION FROM AN
EASEMENT OWNER OR ANY OTHER DOCUMENTATION THAT WILL PROVIDE SUFFICIENT
PROOF THE LOT OWNER HAS OBTAINED NECESSARY CLEARANCE PRIOR TO
COMMENCING CONSTRUCTION. FAILURE TO PROVIDE THE REQUESTED DOCUMENT OR
INFORMATION MAY RESULT IN A DENIAL OF ALL OR ANY PORTION OF THE REQUEST
SUBMITTED.
THE ACC IS NOT REQUIRED TO APPROVE WORK IN AN EASEMENT
REGARDLESS OF WHETHER A CONSENT IS OBTAINED OR NOT. THE ACC HAS THE RIGHT
TO REQUIRE A GREATER SETBACK FROM ANY FENCE FOR THE INSTALLATION OF ANY
STRUCTURE, TEMPORARY OR PERMANENT.

Section 2.8 Building Materials.
The building materials to be used for each residence and other structure must confol iii to
the requirements set out in Section 2.4 of the Design Guidelines. Allowed roofing materials shall
be set forth in Section 2.1 and 2.2 of the Design Guidelines. The color of roofing shall be as set
forth in Section 2.1 of the Design Guidelines. Minimum roof pitch without the prior written
consent of the Reviewer is 6-in-12 slope notwithstanding a higher roof pitch of at least 8-in-12
may be used to meet certain City of Princeton design elements required under the City Ordinance.
Section 2.9 Mailboxes and Address Blocks.
Mailboxes shall be cluster mailboxes standardized throughout Whitewing Trails and shall
be constructed in accordance with the Design Guidelines or as deteimined by the Declarant and
the U.S. Postal Service. An address block shall be installed on the front facade of each residence
and shall be kept clear of any obstructions at all times. In the event that any cluster mailbox
installed in the Subdivision requires maintenance, replacement or repairs, such maintenance,
replacement and/or repairs shall be performed by the Association and the costs and expenses
incurred by the Association in connection therewith shall be charged on a pro rata basis (based on
the total number of mailbox units within such cluster mailbox) as a special individual assessment
to the Owners with mailbox units within the cluster mailbox that has been maintained, repaired
and/or replaced. The Association does not provide or maintain key's for the cluster mailboxes.
Owners shall be responsible for obtaining keys at time of purchase of residence.
Section 2.10 Landscaping.
Each Builder of a residence upon each Lot shall, upon or before the first occupancy of a
house, sod grass in the front and side yards, plant the minimum size and number of trees and
minimum size and number of shrubs in the front yard against the foundation of the house as
required by either the Design Guidelines. Landscape and irrigation requirements for all residential
uses shall conform to City of Princeton Development Standards and Use Regulations and as set
18

forth in Section 1.1 of the Design Guidelines and as may be amended from time to time.
Thereafter, each Owner of a Lot shall have the responsibility to properly maintain such trees and
landscaping and, if necessary, shall replace such trees or landscaping in accordance with the
Design Guidelines. The Declarant and/or the Association shall have the right but not the obligation,
to be exercised at its sole option, to remove and replace dead trees and landscaping and charge the
costs thereof to the Owner's account as a special individual assessment under Section 10.7 below.
All landscaping installed by the Declarant within or that are part of the Common Properties shall
become the responsibility of the Association to maintain immediately after installation. Any
maintenance or replacement by the Declarant after initial installation shall be at the sole discretion
or the Declarant.
Section 2.11 Design Guidelines.
In addition to any requirements set forth in this Declaration or the City of Princeton Planned
Development Ordinance 2009-07-28 (as modified and amended by the City of Princeton
Ordinance No. 2019-06-24-01), all Owners are required to comply with the Design Guidelines in
the construction of improvements within the Property and the installation, maintenance and
replacement of trees and landscaping within the Property as outlined in Exhibit C.
Section 2.12

CITY ORDINANCE NO. 2009-07-28, as amended

The Property and Lots are subject to City of Princeton, Texas, Planned Development
Ordinance 2009-07-28, as modified and amended by the City of Princeton Ordinance No.
2019-06-24-01, and it now exists or may be further modified or amended from time to time.
All Builders and Owners are required to review and know the City's Ordinance and may
not rely solely on this Declaration or the Design Guidelines for all City ordinances and
restrictions which may apply. In the event of a discrepancy between this Declaration and
the City's ordinances, the higher standard shall always prevail unless written consent from
the Reviewer is received.
Section 2.13 Guns, Firearms and Weapons; Fireworks. Hunting and shooting are not
pei mined anywhere on or from the Property. No toys, weapons or firearms, including, without
limitation, air rifles, BB guns, sling-shots or other item that is designed to cause harm to any
person, animal or property may be used in a manner to cause such harm (whether intentionally or
negligently or otherwise) to any person, animal or property. Violation of this restriction is subject
to an immediate fine of up to $1,000 per occurrence after the first notification (which may be given
in writing or verbally, to the extent permitted under applicable law). Fireworks are strictly
prohibited. Use of fireworks in the Subdivision is subject to a monetary fine of $1,000.00 for
each violation. A sworn affidavit signed by a witness with legal capacity made under penalty of
perjury attesting to the violation and specifying the date of approximate time of such violation
which is received by the Association shall be sufficient evidence of such violation.
Section 2.14 Use of Association and Subdivision Name. The use of the name of the
Association or the Subdivision, or any variation thereof, in any capacity without the express
written consent of the Declarant during the Declarant Control Period, and thereafter the Board, is
strictly prohibited. Additionally, the use of any logo adopted by the Association or the Subdivision,
or use of any photographs of the entryway signage or other Subdivision signs or monuments or
19

Common Properties without the express written consent of Declarant during the Declarant Control
Period, and thereafter the Board, is strictly prohibited.
Section 2.15 Noise and Odor. An Owner or occupant of a residence must exercise
reasonable care to avoid making or pei witting to be made loud, disturbing, or objectionable noises
or noxious odors that are likely to disturb or annoy occupants of neighboring residences. The
rules and regulations promulgated by the Association may limit, discourage, or prohibit noiseproducing activities and items in the residences and on the Common Properties within the
Subdivision. The Association shall provide an Owner with notice of its violation of this use
restriction, and if an Owner receives more than one notice in any 12-month period, upon receipt
of the second notice from the Association, the Owner shall be subject to fines hereunder.
Notwithstanding anything contained herein to the contrary, the Board in its sole discretion and
without incurring any further duty or obligation to Owners and occupants of residences within the
Property, may decide to take no action and refer complaining parties to the appropriate municipal
or governmental authorities for handling and final disposition. IF ANY NOISE OR ODOR
BECOMES A NUISANCE IN THE SUBDIVISION, OWNERS AND OCCUPANTS OF
RESIDENCES ARE ENCOURAGED TO CONTACT THEIR LOCAL LAW ENFORCEMENT
OFFICIALS FOR ASSISTANCE. The Association shall have no liability or obligation to ensure

the Subdivision or any Owner or occupant of a residence therein is free from nuisance and cannot
be held liable or responsible if any enforcement actions taken by the Association under this Section
2.15 are unsuccessful.
EACH OWNER AND OCCUPANT OF A RESIDENCE BY ACCEPTANCE OF TITLE TO ITS
LOT HEREBY RELEASES AND WAIVES THE ASSOCIATION, DECLARANT, THE BOARD
AND/OR ITS MANAGING AGENT AND THEIR RESPECTIVE MEMBERS, EMPLOYEES,
DESIGNEES, ADMINISTRATORS, INSPECTORS, CONTRACTORS, AND AGENTS, AND
AGREES TO INDEMNIFY AND DEFEND SAME AND HOLD THEM HARMLESS FROM AND
AGAINST ANY CLAIMS, LIABILITIES, LOSS, DAMAGE, COSTS AND EXPENSES,
INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO ATTORNEYS' FEES, IN CONNECTION WITH OR
ARISING OUT OF ANY ACTIONS OR INACTIONS OF AN OWNER OR THE OCCUPANTS OF
SUCH OWNERS LOT THAT RESULTS IN NOISE OR ODORS THAT MAY BE A NUISANCE
TO OTHERS WITHIN THE SUBDIVISION. Any Owner in violation of this Section 2.15 is

subject to a $1,000 fine per occurrence (each day of violation being deemed to be an occurrence).
Section 2.16 Drones and Unmanned Aircraft. Any Owner operating or using a drone or
unmanned aircraft within the Property and related airspace must register such drone or unmanned
aircraft with the Federal Aviation Administration ("FAA"), to the extent required under applicable
FAA rules and regulations, and mark such done or unmanned aircraft prominently with the serial
number or registration number on the drone or unmanned aircraft for identification purposes. BY
ACCEPTANCE OF TITLE TO ANY PORTION OF THE PROPERTY, EACH OWNER
ACKNOWLEDGES THAT USE OF A DRONE OR UNMANNED AIRCRAFT TO TAKE IMAGES
OF PRIVATE PROPERTY OR PERSONS WITHOUT CONSENT MAY BE A VIOLATION OF
TEXAS LAW AND CLASS C MISDEMEANOR SUBJECT TO LEGAL ACTION AND FINES UP
TO $10,000. IT IS YOUR RESPONSIBILITY TO KNOW AND COMPLY WITH ALL LAWS
APPLICABLE TO YOUR DRONE AND/OR UNMANNED AIRCRAFT USE.

20

