Section 9.1 Initial Common Properties.
The Common Properties may include but, are not limited to, and by way of illustration
only, all aspects of the entry features, entry monuments and walls, landscaping, irrigation for same
and the land on which such entry features are situated, retention ponds, screening walls, pocket
parks, a clubhouse and associated recreational amenity, if applicable, gates, fences, fountains and
other structures, whether or not shown on a Final Plat, or as deemed necessary by Declarant, each
as may be leased, maintained or owned by the Association. The foregoing list is intended to
illustrate examples of Common Properties and under no circumstance shall such list impose any
obligation on the Declarant or the Association to purchase, install or construct any such features
or amenities. The Common Properties may hereafter include any neighborhood parks or other
improvements or land conveyed to or leased by the Association for the use and benefit of the
Owners. All Common Properties and Property, improvements, Amenities as well as the
maintenance and repair of Common Properties and Property, improvements and amenities shall be
the responsibility of the Association after initial construction or installation.
The Declarant, after initial construction and / or installation shall not be responsible for the
maintenance, upkeep or repair. Assessments and monetary obligations of Owners of Lots are not
contingent upon the construction or existence of any common area, common element, amenity, or
any other Common Properties.
Section 9.2 Additional Common Properties.
Additional property may be added to the Common Properties hereunder upon the sole
discretion of Declarant during such time as Declarant owns at least one (1) Lot. Thereafter,
additional property may be added to the Common Properties hereunder upon the affirmative vote
of at least fifty-one percent (51%) of the votes of those Association Members, regardless of class,
who are voting, in person or by proxy, at a meeting duly called for such purpose.

34

Section 9.3 Acceptance and Control of Common Properties.
Declarant, or any third-party at the request of Declarant, may transfer to the Association,
and the Association shall accept as Common Properties, personal property and/or fee title or other
property interests in any improved or unimproved real property included within the property
described in Exhibit A or any other real property made subject to this Declaration in the future in
its "As Is" condition. Upon Declarant's written request, the Association shall transfer back to
Declarant any unimproved real property originally conveyed to the Association for no payment,
to the extent conveyed by Declarant in error or needed by Declarant to make minor adjustments in
property lines.
Section 9.4 Extent of Members' Easement in the Common Properties.
Each Member shall have a right and easement of access, use and enjoyment in and to the
Common Properties which is subject to the following:
9.4.1 The right of the Association to prescribe regulations governing the use,
operation and maintenance of the Common Properties;
9.4.2 The right of the Association to take such steps as is reasonably necessary to
protect the Common Properties against foreclosure;
9.4.3 Subject to applicable law (including, without limitation, Section 209.006 of
the Texas Property Code), the right of the Association to suspend the right of any individual
to use any of the Common Properties and/or common facilities for any period during which
any assessment against a Lot resided upon or owned by such individual remains unpaid,
and for any period in which an infraction of the rules and regulations of the Association,
the Declaration, or the Design Guidelines remains uncured; and
9.4.4 The right of the Association to charge reasonable admission and other fees
for the use of recreational facilities on the Common Properties, if any such recreational
facilities are ever constructed.
Section 9.5 Dedication of the Common Properties.
The Board of Directors shall have the right at any time to dedicate or transfer all or any
part of the Common Properties to any public agency, authority or utility for such purposes and
upon such conditions as the Board of Directors may determine.
