Section 6.1 Special Enforcement Rights of the Board of the Association.
In the event an Owner or any tenant or occupant or any guest or invitee fails to comply
with any provision of this Declaration, the Design Guidelines, including but not limited to any
requirement contained in Article V, then, prior to the Board or the Association enforcing the
compliance of such failure or seeking against such Owner remedies in accordance with this
Declaration (or such other remedies as may be available to the Board and/or the Association at law
or in equity), the Board shall first be obligated to give such Owner (Owner's shall at all times he
responsible for the conduct of all occupants, tenants, guests, and invitees) a minimum of one (1)
notice of such failure and a reasonable time to cure such violation or failure. The amount of time
allotted for cure shall vary depending upon the violation, the severity of the violation, the
reoccurrence of a violation, as well as the type of violation. Violations of certain restrictions such
as pet violations and violations putting at risk the safety, health, and welfare of other persons,
animals, or things may carry a different notice requirement and fine rate and schedule to be
determined by the Declarant during the Declarant Control Period and thereafter, by the Board of
Directors. If the Owner shall not have corrected such failure within such reasonable time after
the giving of such notice, the Board of Directors shall have the right but not the obligation, to
assess monetary fines which may not exceed a total of $1,000.00 per occurrence which may be
levied in increments or as a lump sum and enter upon the Lot and to bring the Lot, and any
improvements thereon, into full compliance with this Declaration, the Design Guidelines. All
costs and expenses incurred by the Association in connection with correcting any such failure shall
be borne by the Owner. if any Owner does not promptly reimburse the Association for all such
29

costs, expenses and violation fines assessed after receipt of written request for same, the Board
shall have the right to assess the Owner for same plus interest, such assessment, interest and fines
being a special individual assessment under the provisions of Section 10.6 below. Self-help will
be considered to abate any violation as deemed necessary or appropriate by the Board of Directors.
Owners shall be solely responsible for the compliance of any resident, occupant, guest, or invitee.
Any violation cited against an Owner's residence or Lot shall be the sole responsibility of the
Owner to abate and bring into compliance. The Board of Directors may but, is not obligated to
send violation notices to the resident or occupant notwithstanding the Owner shall be solely
responsible for any monetary penalty or self-help actions enforced against his residence or Lot.
Section 6.2 Enforcement.
In addition to but not in lieu of the enforcement rights set forth in Section 6.1, the Board
of Directors may impose sanctions for violation of this Declaration (including any rules,
regulations, policies, guidelines or standards adopted pursuant to the Declaration) in accordance
with the applicable procedures set forth in any policy or procedure adopted by the Board.
Notwithstanding, should any such policy contain rules or sanctions less than those rules and
sanctions present in this Declaration, this Declaration and any rules or regulations promulgated
hereunder shall prevail. Such sanctions may include all remedies available at law and/or in equity
and all remedies herein, including, without limitation, the following:
(a)
Fines. The Board of Directors may impose reasonable monetary fines which shall
constitute a lien upon the Owner of the Lot related to or connected with the alleged violation. The
Owner shall be liable for the actions of any occupant, guest, or invitee of the Owner of such Lot.
The same violation, regardless of its origin, noted and properly noticed shall be deemed as a
separate occurrence.
(b)
Suspension of Rights to Use the Common Properties. The Board of Directors may
suspend any person's or entity's right to use any recreational facilities within the Common
Properties and this rule shall also apply to any Owner or Owner's occupants, tenants, guests, or
invitees that violate a posted rule at pools, parks, or any other amenity or Common Properties
within the Subdivision. Depending upon the severity of the violation, suspensions may remain in
place for up to six (6) months or permanently if such violation causes injury or damage to any
person, place, or thing. Provided, however, nothing herein shall authorize the Board of Directors
to limit ingress or egress to or from a Lot.
(c)
Right to Require Removal. The Board of Directors may require an Owner, at the
Owner's expense, to remove any dead tree or landscaping from an Owner's Lot and to restore or
install the necessary trees or landscaping as required by the applicable City ordinances, or as
required by Association rules, regulations, and/or policies, upon failure of the Owner to do so, the
Board of Directors or its designee shall have the right to enter the Lot, remove and cure the
violation without such action being deemed a trespass and charge the costs thereof to the Owner's
account as a special individual assessment in accordance with Section 10.6 below.

30

(d)
Levy Special Individual Assessment. The Board of Directors may levy a special
individual assessment in accordance with Section 10.6 as a violation fine and/or to cover costs
incurred by the Association in bringing a Lot into compliance with this Declaration, the Design
Guidelines, rules, regulation, policies as well as any Community-Wide Standard whether or not
said standard is in writing.
(e)
Lawsuit; Injunction or Damages. The Board of Directors may bring a suit at law
or in equity to enjoin any violation or to recover monetary damages, or both. Failure by Declarant
or the Board of Directors, to enforce any covenant, condition, agreement or restriction herein
contained shall in no event be deemed a waiver of the right to do so thereafter. In addition to the
Association's enforcement rights, this Declaration may be enforced by any aggrieved Owner.
The decision to pursue enforcement action in any particular case shall be left to the Board's
discretion, except that the Board shall not be arbitrary or capricious in taking enforcement action.
Without limiting the generality of the foregoing sentence, the Board may determine that, under the
circumstances of a particular case: (i) the Association's position is not strong enough to justify
taking any or further action; (ii) the covenant, restriction, or rule being enforced is, or is likely to
be construed as, inconsistent with applicable law; (iii) although a technical violation may exist or
may have occurred, it is not of such a material nature as to be objectionable to a reasonable person
or to justify expending the Association's resources; or (iv) that it is not in the Association's best
interests, based upon hardship, expense, or other reasonable criteria, to pursue enforcement action.
So long as the Board of Directors has taken measures to address a violation with an Owner
and has exhausted those enforcement measures allowed per this Declaration and as deemed
appropriate at the sole discretion of the Board the Association shall have been considered to
have performed their due diligence and no Owner shall have the right to harass, defame
through any form of media or social media, e-mail, or any other communication tool, and
may not bring suit against the Association, the Declarant, the Board of Directors, or the
managing agent of the Association to include all successors or assigns of any of the persons
or entities named above.
