Section 12.1 Declarant Rights.
Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, so long as Declarant owns at least
one (1) Lot, Declarant shall have the sole right, but not the obligation, in its sole discretion,
at any time, effective as of the date hereof, to control, perform and/or conduct the following:

(1)

amend this Declaration, the Design Guidelines and/or the Community-Wide
Standard, in whole or in part for any reason as the Declarant in its discretion, deems
necessary without the consent or joinder of the Board or Members;

(2)

enforce the provisions of this Declaration, Design Guidelines, policies, rules and
regulations as they exist or may be adopted, amended, or rescinded. Limit or
restrict the duties of the Board of Directors, enter into contracts and Agreements;

(3)

review, determine and enforce the architectural control of the Lots. So long as
Builders have Lots to purchase or upon which to construct, the Declarant alone or
an ACC appointed by the Declarant shall have the review rights and act as
"Reviewer" hereunder for Builders; and

(4)

assigns its rights and obligations under this Declaration to any entity at any time, in
whole or in part.

Declarant's rights set forth above are absolute in its sole discretion and do not require the
approval, consent, or joinder of (i) any Owner, (ii) the Association, (iii) the Board of Directors, or
(iv) any committees or other parties which may be established with respect hereto. At such time
as Declarant no longer owns a Lot within the Property, all of such rights of enforcement shall
revert to the Board of Directors of the Association. In the event any other provision in this
Declaration is in contradiction to this Article XII, in whole or in part, this Article XII shall
prevail.
Section 12.2 Easement to Inspect and Right to Correct.
Declarant reserves for itself and others it may designate the right, but not the obligation, to
inspect, monitor, test, redesign, and correct any structure, improvement, or condition which may
exist on any portion of the Property, including Lots, and a nonexclusive easement of access
throughout the Property to the extent reasonably necessary to exercise such right. Except in an
emergency, entry onto a Lot shall be only after reasonable notice to the Owner and no entry into a
residence or other structure on a Lot shall be permitted without the Owner's consent, which consent
48

shall not unreasonably be withheld, conditioned, or delayed. The failure or refusal to permit
reasonable access to the Lot for the purposes contemplated under this paragraph shall excuse
Declarant or its designee from responsibility for repairs or damages relating to defective
workmanship or materials.
Section 12.3 Right to Develop.
Declarant and its employees, agents, and designees shall have a right of access and use and
an easement over and upon all of the Property for the purpose of making, constructing, and
installing such improvements to the Property, as Declarant deems appropriate in its discretion.
Section 12.4 Construction Activities.
All Owners, occupants, and users of Lots are hereby placed on notice that Declarant, and/or
its agents, contractors, subcontractors, licensees, and other designees, shall conduct development
and construction activities within the Property and that such activities shall be conducted in phases
and may cause disturbance and disruption which impact the use and enjoyment of a Lot. No
Owner shall interfere with the development and buildout of the Subdivision. Owners are
hereby put on notice that any such interference shall result in any number of violations or
actions which may be initiated by the Declarant, any Builder or the Association. By the
acceptance of a deed or other conveyance or mortgage, leasehold, license, or other interest, and by
using any portion of a Lot or the Property generally, the Owners and all occupants and users of
Lots acknowledge, stipulate, and agree: (a) that such activities shall not be deemed nuisances, or
noxious or offensive activities, under any applicable covenants or at law generally; (b) not to enter
upon, or allow their children or other persons under their control or direction to enter upon, or
allow their children or other persons under their control or direction to enter upon (regardless of
whether such entry is a trespass or otherwise) any property within or in proximity to the Lot where
such activities are being conducted (even if not being actively conducted at the time of entry, such
as at night or otherwise during non-working hours); (c) that Declarant and all of its agents,
contractors, subcontractors, licensees, and other designees, shall not be liable but, rather, shall be
held harmless for any and all losses, damages (compensatory, consequential, punitive, or
otherwise), injuries, or deaths arising from or relating to the aforesaid activities; (d) that any
purchase or use of any portion of a Lot has been and will be made with full knowledge of the
foregoing; and (e) this acknowledgment and agreement is a material inducement to Declarant to
sell, convey, lease, and/or allow the use of Lots within the Property.
Section 12.5 Changes in Master Plan.
Each Owner acknowledges that Subdivision is a planned community, the development of
which is likely to extend over many years, and agrees that the Association shall not engage in, or
use Association funds to support any protest, challenge, or other form of objection to (a) changes
in uses or density of property within the Property, or (b) changes in the master plan of Subdivision,
including, without limitation, the enlargement of the master plan and the acquisition or revision of
regulatory approvals to reflect the annexation of real property, without Declarant's prior written
consent, which consent may be granted or withheld in Declarant's discretion.

49

Each Owner acknowledges and agrees that the present plans and themes for the Property's
development may change and that it has not relied on any representation, warranty, or assurance
by any person: (a) that any Lots, or other property or facilities will or will not be added, modified,
or eliminated within the Property; or (b) as to the financial or other impact of such action on any
Owner. Each Owner acknowledges and agrees that it is not entitled to rely upon and has not
received or relied upon any representations, warranties, or guarantees whatsoever as to: (a) the
design, construction, completion, development, use, benefits, or value of the Property; or (b) the
number, types, sizes, prices, or designs of any residential structures or improvements built or to be
built in any part of the Property.
Section 12.6 Dispute Resolution.
(a)
AGREEMENT TO ENCOURAGE RESOLUTION OF DISPUTES WITHOUT
LITIGATION.
12.6.1 Bound Parties. Declarant, the Association and its officers, directors, and
committee members, Owners, residents, and all other parties subject to this Declaration ("Bound
Party", or collectively, the "Bound Parties"), agree that it is in the best interest of all concerned
to encourage the amicable resolution of disputes involving the Property without the emotional and
financial costs of litigation. Accordingly, each Bound Party agrees not to file suit in any court
with respect to a Claim described in subsection (b), unless and until it has first submitted such
Claim to the alternative dispute resolution procedures set forth in this Section in a good faith effort
to resolve such Claim.
12.6.2 Claim(s). As used in this Article, the term "Claim" or "Claims" will refer
to any claim, grievance or dispute arising out of or relating to:
(i)
Claims relating to the rights and/or duties of Declarant, the Association or
an Owner under the Restrictions; or
(ii)
Claims relating to the design or construction of improvements on the
Common Properties or Lots, other than matters of aesthetic judgment under Article 11, which will
not be subject to review.
12.6.3 Not Considered Claims. The following will not be considered "Claims"
for purposes of this Article unless all parties to the matter otherwise agree to submit the matter to
the procedures set forth herein:
(i)
any legal proceeding by the Association to collect assessments or other
amounts due from any Owner;
(ii)
any legal proceeding by the Association to obtain a temporary restraining
order (or emergency equitable relief) and such ancillary relief as the court may deem necessary in
order to maintain the status quo and preserve the Association's ability to enforce the provisions of
this Restrictions;

50

(iii)
any legal proceeding which does not include Declarant or the Association
as a party, if such action asserts a Claim which would constitute a cause of action independent of
the Restrictions; and
(iv)
12.7

any action by the Association to enforce the Restrictions.

CLAIMS REGARDING COMMON PROPERTIES.

12.7.1 Claim by the Association — Common Properties. The Association does not
have the power or right to institute, defend, intervene in, settle, or compromise litigation or
administrative proceedings: (i) in the name of or on behalf of any Owner (whether one or more);
or (ii) pertaining to a Claim, as defined in Section(s) described above, relating to the design or
construction of a residence (whether one or more). In the event the Association or an Owner
asserts a Claim related to the Common Properties, as a precondition to providing the Notice defined
in this Article, initiating the mandatory dispute resolution procedures set forth in this Article or
taking any other action to prosecute a Claim related to the Common Properties, the Association or
an Owner, as applicable, must:

(i)Independent Report on the Condition of the Common Properties. Obtain an
independent third-party report (the "Common Properties Report") from a licensed professional
engineer in the same area of engineering practice of which the engineer is qualified which:
(A) identifies the Common Properties subject to the Claim including the present physical condition
of the Common Properties; (B) describes any modification, maintenance, or repairs to the Common
Properties performed by the Owner(s) and/or the Association; (C) provides specific and detailed
recommendations regarding remediation and/or repair of the Common Properties subject to the
Claim. For the purposes of this Section, an independent third-party report is a report obtained
directly by the Association or an Owner and paid for by the Association or an Owner, as applicable,
and not prepared by a person employed by or otherwise affiliated with the attorney or law fiiiii
that represents or will represent the Association or an Owner in the Claim. As a precondition to
providing the Notice described herein, the Association or Owner must provide at least ten (10)
days prior written notice of the inspection to each party subject to a Claim which notice shall
identify the independent third-party engaged to prepare the Common Properties Report, the
specific Common Properties to be inspected, and the date and time the inspection will occur. Each
party subject to a Claim may attend the inspection, personally or through an agent. Upon
completion, the Common Properties Report shall be provided to each party subject to a claim. In
addition, before providing the Notice described herein, the Association or the Owner, as
applicable, shall have permitted each party subject to a Claim the right, for a period of ninety (90)
days, to inspect and correct, any condition identified in the Common Properties Report.

(ii)
Owner Meeting and Approval. Obtain approval from Members holding
eighty five percent (85%) of the votes in the Association to provide the Notice described herein,
initiate the mandatory dispute resolution procedures set forth in this Article 12, or take any other
action to prosecute a Claim, which approval from Members must be obtained at a special meeting
of Members called in accordance with the Bylaws. The notice of meeting required hereunder will
be provided pursuant to the Bylaws but the notice must also include: (A) the nature of the Claim,
the relief sought, the anticipated duration of prosecuting the Claim, and the likelihood of success;
51

(B) a copy of the Common Properties Report; (C) a copy of any proposed engagement letter, with
the terms of such engagement between the Association and an attorney to be engaged by the
Association to assert or provide assistance with the claim (the "Engagement Letter"); (D) a
description of the attorney fees, consultant fees, expert witness fees, and court costs, whether
incurred by the Association directly or for which it may be liable if it is not the prevailing party or
that the Association will be required, pursuant to the Engagement Letter or otherwise, to pay if the
Association elects to not to proceed with the Claim; (E) a summary of the steps previously taken,
and proposed to be taken, to resolve the Claim; (F) an estimate of the impact on the value of each
Lot and improvements if the Claim is prosecuted and an estimate of the impact on the value of
each Lot and improvements after resolution of the Claim; (G) an estimate of the impact on the
marketability of each Lot and improvements if the Claim is prosecuted and during prosecution of
the Claim, and an estimate of the impact on the value of each Lot and improvements during and
after resolution of the Claim; (H) the manner in which the Association proposes to fund the cost
of prosecuting the Claim; and (I) the impact on the finances of the Association, including the
impact on present and projected reserves, in the event the Association is not the prevailing party.
The notice required by this paragraph must be prepared and signed by a person other than, and not
employed by or otherwise affiliated with, the attorney or law firm that represents or will represent
the Association or Owner, as applicable, in the Claim. If the Claim is prosecuted by the
Association, in the event Members approve providing the Notice described herein, or taking any
other action to prosecute a Claim, the Members holding a Majority of the votes in the Association,
at a special meeting called in accordance with the Bylaws, may elect to discontinue prosecution or
pursuit of the Claim.

(iii)
Prohibition on Contingency Fee Contracts. The Association may not
contract
with
any attorney, law firm, consultant, expert or advisor on a contingency fee
engage or
basis, in whole or in part, to assist in the prosecution of a Claim.

12.8

NOTICE

(i)
Notice Requirements for All Claims. The Bound Party asserting a Claim
("Claimant") against another Bound Party ("Respondent") must notify the Respondent in writing
of the Claim (the "Notice"), stating plainly and concisely: (A) the nature of the Claim, including
date, time, location, persons involved, and Respondent's role in the Claim; (B) the basis of the
Claim (i.e., the provision of the Restrictions or other authority out of which the Claim arises); (C)
what Claimant wants Respondent to do or not do to resolve the Claim; and (D) that the Notice is
given pursuant to this Section. All Bound Parties agree that the provisions of Chapter 27 of the
Texas Property Code shall control any Claim, and they expressly adopt and incorporate the terms
of Chapter 27 of the Texas Property Code as is full set forth herein. If the Claimant is the
Association, prior to proceeding with negotiations under this Article/Section, the Association shall
fully comply with provisions of Chapter 27 of the Texas Property Code, but for all other Claims ,
the time period for negotiation in Section(s) below or as provided herein, is equivalent to the sixty
(60) day period under Section 27.004 of the Texas Property Code. If a Claim is subject to Chapter
27 of the Texas Property Code, the Claimant and Respondent are advised, in addition to
compliance with this Article and all Sections, to comply with the terms and provisions of Section
27.004 during such sixty (60) day period. No Section of this Dispute Resolution is intended to
modify or extend the time period set forth in Section 27.004 of the Texas Property Code. Failure
52

to comply with the time periods or actions specified in Section 27.004 shall not affect a Claim and
the Respondent shall have all rights and remedies under Chapter 27 of the Texas Property Code.
The one hundred and twenty (120) day period for mediation set forth herein below is intended to
provide the Claimant and Respondent with sufficient time to resolve the Claim in the event
resolution is not accomplished during negotiation. If the Claim is not resolved during negotiation,
mediation pursuant to this Article is required without regard to the monetary amount of the Claim.
(ii)
Special Notice for Association. If the Claimant is the Association. the
Notice will also include: (A) a true and correct copy of the Common Properties Report; (13) a copy
of the Engagement Letter; (C) copies of all reports, studies, analyses, and recommendations
obtained by the Association related to the Common Properties which forms the basis of the Claim;
(D) a true and correct copy of the special meeting notice provided to Members in accordance with
this Article (ii) above; and (E) and reasonable and credible evidence confirming that Members
holding eighty-five percent (85%) of the votes in the Association approved providing the Notice.
If the Claimant is the Association, providing the information identified in this Section (ii) is a
condition precedent to the assertion of any Claim. Should the Association fail to provide the
information required by this Section (ii) to the Respondent, the Respondent shall be entitled to a
temporary injunction enjoining the prosecution of the Claim until such time as the Association
provides the information required by this Section (ii). Furthermore, should the Association fail
to provide information required by this Section (ii) within one-hundred twenty (120) days after
making a demand on the Respondent, the Association's Claim shall be dismissed with prejudice,
and the Respondent may take such actions in law or in equity to confirm such dismissal.
12.9 NEGOTIATION. Claimant and Respondent will make every reasonable effort to
meet in person to resolve the Claim by good faith negotiation. At any time during the negotiation
period, if the Respondent is the Declarant, the Declarant may make repairs to the Common
Properties to prevent further damage to any of these areas, the structures, or residence, whether or
not such repairs would inhibit or prohibit Claimant from securing evidence of resulting damage.
Within 60 days after Respondent's receipt of the Notice, Respondent and Claimant will meet at a
mutually acceptable place and time to discuss the Claim. If the Claim involves all or any portion
of the Property, then at such meeting or at some other mutually-agreeable time, Respondent and
Respondent's representatives will have full access to the Property that is subject to the Claim for
the purposes of inspecting the Property. If Respondent elects to take corrective action, Claimant
will provide Respondent and Respondent's representatives and agents with full access to the
Property to take and complete corrective action.
12.10 MEDIATION. If the parties negotiate, but do not resolve the Claim through
negotiation within one-hundred twenty (120) days from the date of the Notice (or within such other
period as may be agreed on by the parties), Claimant will have thirty (30) additional days within
which to submit the Claim to mediation under the auspices of a mediation center or individual
mediator on which the parties mutually agree. The mediator must have at least five (5) years of
experience serving as a mediator and must have technical knowledge or expertise appropriate to
the subject matter of the Claim. If Claimant does not submit the Claim to mediation within the
30-day period, Respondent will submit the Claim to mediation in accordance with this Section.

53

12.11 TERMINATION OF MEDIATION. If the Parties do not settle the Claim within
thirty (30) days after submission to mediation, or within a time deemed reasonable by the mediator,
the mediator will issue a notice of tel mination of the mediation proceedings indicating that the
Parties are at an impasse and the date that mediation was terminated. Thereafter, if the
Association is the Claimant, it shall provide a report of the mediation to the Members of the
Association, which such report shall provide the last best offer made by the Respondent, the last
best offer by the Association, and the reason the Association did not accept the offer made by the
Respondent. After such report is provided to the Members, the Board shall call a special meeting
of the Members, at which special meeting the Members shall vote on whether to accept the last,
best offer by the Respondent. If a Majority of the Members in attendance at the special meeting
vote to accept the Respondent's last, best offer, the Board shall accept the Respondent's last, best
offer and shall dismiss the Claim. Claimant may file suit or initiate arbitration proceedings on the
Claim, as appropriate and permitted by this Article.

12.12 BINDING ARBITRATION-CLAIMS. All Claims must be settled by binding
arbitration. Claimant or Respondent may, by summary proceedings (e.g., a plea in abatement or
motion to stay further proceedings), bring an action in court to compel arbitration of any Claim
not referred to arbitration as required by this Section.
12.13 Governing Rules. If a Claim has not been resolved after Mediation as required by
this Article, the Claim will be resolved by binding arbitration in accordance with the terms of this
Section and the rules and procedures of the American Arbitration Association ("AAA") or, if the
AAA is unable or unwilling to act as the arbitrator, then the arbitration shall be conducted by
another neutral reputable arbitration service selected by Respondent. Regardless of what entity
or person is acting as the arbitrator, the arbitration shall he conducted in accordance with the
AAA's "Construction Industry Dispute Resolution Procedures" and, if they apply to the
disagreement, the rules contained in the Supplementary Procedures for Consumer-Related
Disputes. If such rules have changed or been renamed by the time a disagreement arises, then the
successor rules will apply. Also, despite the choice of rules governing the arbitration of any
Claim, if the AAA has, by the time of Claim, identified different rules that would specifically apply
to the Claim, then those rules will apply instead of the rules identified above. In the event of any
inconsistency between any such applicable rules and this Section, this Section will control.
Judgment upon the award rendered by the arbitrator shall be binding and not subject to appeal, but
may be reduced to judgment in any court having jurisdiction. Notwithstanding any provision to
the contrary or any applicable rules for arbitration, any arbitration with respect to Claims arising
hereunder shall be conducted by a panel of three (3) arbitrators, to be chosen as follows:

12.13.1
Exceptions to Arbitration; Preservation of Remedies. No provision
of, nor the exercise of any rights under, this Section will limit the right of Claimant or Respondent,
and Claimant and the Respondent will have the right during any Claim, to seek, use, and employ
ancillary or preliminary remedies, judicial or otherwise, for the purposes of realizing upon,
preserving, or protecting upon any property, real or personal, that is involved in a Claim, including,
without limitation, rights and remedies relating to: (i) exercising self-help remedies (including setoff rights); or (ii) obtaining provisions or ancillary remedies such as injunctive relief, sequestration,
attachment, garnishment, or the appointment of a receiver from a court having jurisdiction before,
54

during, or after the pendency of any arbitration. The institution and maintenance of an action for
judicial relief or pursuit of provisional or ancillary remedies or exercise of self-help remedies shall
not constitute a waiver of the right of any party to submit the Claim to arbitration nor render
inapplicable the compulsory arbitration provisions hereof.

Statute of Limitations. All statutes of limitations that would
12.13.2
otherwise be applicable shall apply to any arbitration proceeding under this Section, and to the
fullest extent allowed under law, any' action, lawsuit and/or claim whatsoever initiated by the
Association or its assigns, regardless of form, that arises from or relates to this Declaration, the
Property, the Subdivision, the Lots, the residences, the improvements or otherwise is barred unless
it is brought not later than two (2) years and one (1) day from the date the cause of action accrues.

12.13.3
Scope of Award; Modification or Vacation of Award. The
arbitrator shall resolve all Claims in accordance with the applicable substantive law except as
provided by this Section. The arbitrator may grant any remedy or relief that the arbitrator deem
just and equitable and within the scope of this Section but subject to Section 12.14 below
(attorney's fees and costs may not be awarded); provided, however, that for a Claim, or any portion
of a Claim governed by Chapter 27 of the Texas Property Code, or any successor statute, in no
event shall the arbitrator award damages which exceed the damages a Claimant would be entitled
to under Chapter 27 of the Texas Property Code. In all arbitration proceedings the arbitrator shall
make specific, written findings of fact and conclusions of law. In all arbitration proceedings the
parties shall have the right to seek vacation or modification of any award that is based in whole,
or in part, on (i) factual findings that have no legally or factually sufficient evidence, as those teens
are defined in Texas law; (ii) conclusions of law that are erroneous; (iii) an error of federal or state
law; or (iv) a cause of action or remedy not expressly provided under existing state or federal law
or otherwise in accordance with the terms and conditions of this Declaration. In no event may an
arbitrator award speculative, consequential, special, indirect, lost profit or punitive damages for
any Claim. Notwithstanding anything else contained in this Declaration, no Claimant shall be
entitled to an award in connection with a Claim related to or arising in connection with a violation
of Applicable Law, and the arbitrator shall not provide an award, unless the arbitrator determines
that such Claim was due to a material violation of any Applicable Law and that such material
violation of Applicable Law creates an imminent threat to health and safety.

12.13.4
Other Matters. To the maximum extent practicable, an arbitration
proceeding hereunder shall be concluded within one hundred and eighty (180) days of the filing
of the Claim for arbitration by notice from either party to the other. Arbitration proceedings
hereunder shall be conducted in the county where the Property is located. The arbitrator shall be
empowered to impose sanctions and to take such other actions as the arbitrator deems necessary
to the same extent a judge could pursuant to the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, the Texas Rules
of Civil Procedure and applicable law. The arbitrator shall have the power to award recovery of
all costs and fees, subject to the limitations in this Article and any of the pertinent Sections thereto.
Each party agrees to keep all Claims and arbitration proceedings strictly confidential, except for
disclosures of information required in the ordinary course of business of the parties or by
applicable law or regulation. In no event shall any party discuss with the news media or grant
55

any interviews with the news media regarding a Claim or issue any press release regarding any
Claim without the written consent of the other parties to the Claim.

12.14 ALLOCATION OF COSTS. Notwithstanding any provision in this Declaration
to the contrary, each Party bears all of its own costs incurred prior to and during the proceedings
described in the Notice, Negotiation, Mediation, and Arbitration sections above, including its
attorney's fees. For avoidance of doubt, the prevailing party in any Arbitration shall not recover
any attorneys' fees, expenses, or costs. Respondent and Claimant will equally divide all expenses
and fees charged by the mediator and arbitrator.

12.15 GENERAL PROVISIONS. A release or discharge of Respondent from liability to
Claimant on account of the Claim does not release Respondent from liability to persons who are
not party to Claimant's Claim.

12.16 PERIOD OF LIMITATION.
For Actions by an Owner. The exclusive period of limitation for
12.16.1
any of the Parties to bring any Claim, including, but not limited to, a Claim related to the design
or construction of improvements (including, but not limited to residences) on the Common
Properties or Lots, shall be no later than two (2) years and one (1) day from the date that the Owner
discovered or reasonably should have discovered evidence of the Claim.
12.16.2
For Actions by the Association. The exclusive period of limitation
for the Association to bring any Claim, including, but not limited to, a Claim related to the design
or construction of improvements (including, but not limited to residences) on the Common
Properties or Lots, shall be no later than two (2) years and one (1) day from the date that the
Association or its agents discovered or reasonably should have discovered evidence of the Claim.

12.17 APPROVAL & SETTLEMENT.
The Association must levy a Special
Assessment to fund the estimated costs of arbitration, including estimated attorney's fees,
conducted pursuant to this Article or any judicial action initiated by the Association. The
Association may not use its annual operating income or reserve funds or savings to fund arbitration
or litigation, unless the Association's annual budget or a savings account was established and
funded from its inception as an arbitration and litigation reserve fund.

12.18 LIMITATION ON DAMAGES. NOTWITHSTANDING ANY PROVISION
CONTAINED IN THIS DECLARATION OR ANY OF THE ASSOCIATION
DOCUMENTS TO THE CONTRARY, IN NO EVENT SHALL DECLARANT OR THE
ASSOCIATION BE LIABLE FOR SPECULATIVE, CONSEQUENTIAL, SPECIAL,
INDIRECT, LOST PROFIT OR PUNITIVE DAMAGES IN CONNECTION WITH ANY
CLAIM, EVEN IF DUE TO THE NEGLIGENCE OF DECLARANT OR THE
ASSOCIATION.

56

12.19 HOME CONSTRUCTION CLAIMS.

12.19.1 Claims Relating to Residences and Lots. EACH OWNER (WHICH
INCLUDES WITHOUT LIMITATION EACH SUBSEQUENT PURCHASER OF A LOT),
BY ACCEPTING AN INTEREST IN OR TITLE TO A LOT, AGREES THAT ALL
CLAIMS AND CAUSES OF ACTION THAT SUCH OWNER MAY HAVE RELATING
TO THE ORIGINAL DESIGN OR CONSTRUCTION OF SUCH OWNER'S RESIDENCE,
LOT, OR ANY IMPROVEMENT ON SUCH OWNER'S LOT (OTHER THAN COMMON
MAINTENANCE AREAS ON ONE OR MORE LOTS), INCLUDING, WITHOUT
LIMITATION, CLAIMS BASED ON ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES
(COLLECTIVELY, "HOME CONSTRUCTION CLAIMS"), WILL BE GOVERNED
EXCLUSIVELY BY THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF THE EXPRESS OR IMPLIED
WARRANTY PROVIDED BY THE BUILDER OR CONTRACTOR WHICH
CONSTRUCTED SUCH RESIDENCE OR IMPROVEMENT AND ANY OTHER
AGREEMENTS BETWEEN THE INITIAL PURCHASER OF SUCH RESIDENCE AND
SUCH BUILDER OR CONTRACTOR, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION ALL
PROCEDURES AND AGREEMENTS CONTAINED THEREIN PERTAINING TO THE
RESOLUTION OF DISPUTES. WITHOUT LIMITING THE GENERALITY OF THE
FOREGOING, EACH OWNER (WHICH INCLUDES WITHOUT LIMITATION EACH
SUBSEQUENT PURCHASER OF A LOT), BY ACCEPTING AN INTEREST IN OR
TITLE TO A LOT, ASSUMES THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF THE EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED WARRANTY PROVIDED BY THE BUILDER OR CONTRACTOR WHICH
CONSTRUCTED THE RESIDENCE OR IMPROVEMENT, AND, UNLESS THE
EXPRESS WARRANTY OR CONTRACT PROVIDED BY SUCH BUILDER OR
CONTRACTOR CONTAINS OTHER PROCEDURES TO RESOLVE HOME
CONSTRUCTION CLAIMS, SPECIFICALLY AGREES TO THE FOLLOWING:
12.19.2 Agreement to Arbitrate Home Construction Claims. ALL HOME
CONSTRUCTION CLAIMS SHALL BE RESOLVED BY BINDING ARBITRATION. This
means each Owner (which includes without limitation each subsequent purchaser of a Lot) and the
other parties involved in the Home Construction Claim GIVE UP THE RIGHT TO GO TO
COURT OR TO A JURY to assert or defend Home Construction Claims (EXCEPT for matters
that may be taken to SMALL CLAIMS COURT as provided below). Home Construction Claims
will be determined by a NEUTRAL ARBITRATOR and NOT by a judge or jury. The parties to
each Home Construction Claim will be entitled to a FAIR HEARING, but the arbitration
procedures are simpler and more limited than the rules applicable in a court. The arbitrator's
decision will be final and binding, subject to appeal as described below. Arbitrator decisions are
as enforceable as any court order and are subject to very limited review by a court. For more
information, read the provisions regarding arbitration below, review the American Arbitration
Association's Home Construction Arbitration Rules and related information at www.adr.org, call
the American Arbitration Association at 1-800-778-7879, and consult an attorney if you so choose.
Alternatively, if the Home Construction Claim does not exceed the maximum jurisdictional
amount for a small claims court in the state where the Lot is located, a party involved in a Home
Construction Claim may elect to have the claim resolved in a small claims court rather than by
binding arbitration (however, any appeal of a small claims court judgment must be resolved
through arbitration in accordance with this Article).
57

12.19.3 Applicable Law. The original construction and sale of each Residence was
a transaction involving interstate commerce. The Federal Arbitration Act shall govern the
interpretation and enforcement of this agreement to arbitrate Home Construction Claims. Even if
a part of these arbitration provisions is determined to be unenforceable under applicable law, the
remainder shall survive, and the parties shall remain obligated to resolve Home Construction
Claims through binding arbitration as set forth herein.
12.19.4 Arbitrator — American Arbitration Association. The arbitration shall be
conducted before an arbitrator appointed by the AAA. If the AAA declines to arbitrate a Home
Construction Claim, or if the AAA is not available, the parties will agree to an alternative
arbitrator, or have a court appoint a new arbitrator who meets the qualification criteria of an AAAtrained arbitrator and has at least ten years of construction arbitration experience.
12.19.5 Arbitration Rules. The arbitration shall proceed in accordance with the
AAA's Home Construction Arbitration Rules. If those rules have been repealed or replaced at the
time the arbitration claim is filed, the AAA's rules then most applicable to residential construction
shall apply. However, each Builder or contractor will be entitled to visually inspect and perform
testing as to any component claimed to have a construction defect and no AAA rule shall apply if
it is inconsistent with the provisions of this Section 12.19.
12.19.6 Additional Parties or Claims. Each party to a Home Construction Claim
may join as a party to the arbitration any third-party consultant, contractor, supplier, manufacturer,
engineer, architect or other professional involved in the manufacture, design or construction of any
part of the residence, Lot or improvement on the Lot. Except as provided above, each Home
Construction Claim shall be between only the then Owner of a residence or Lot and the Builder,
contractor and other parties involved in manufacture, design or construction of any part of such
residence or improvements on such Lot and shall not be joined or consolidated with the claims or
arbitration of any other party, and the arbitrator is not authorized to permit any consolidation or
joinder with any other party. Each Owner and subsequent purchaser of a Lot waives the right to
institute or participate in a class or any other type of representative arbitration or any type of legal
action as a member or representative of a class for any Home Construction Claim and agrees the
arbitrator is not authorized to permit any class or representative arbitration.
12.19.7 Arbitration Process. A party seeking to resolve a Home Construction Claim
shall begin the arbitration process by filing a demand for arbitration with the AAA and serving a
copy of the demand on the other party. The failure to initiate arbitration at any particular time shall
not be considered a waiver of the right to compel arbitration of a Home Construction Claim. The
only way this right to arbitrate claims may be waived is by a written agreement among the parties.
To the extent not inconsistent with the Federal Arbitration Act, all provisions of this paragraph are
subject to the general qualification that state laws, requirements and rules, including, but not
limited to, state filing limitations (such as statute of limitations and statutes of repose), may affect
how and when arbitration may be initiated and administered. The following is a brief description
of the steps to initiate arbitration and the arbitration process:
(i)
Step 1 — Filing a Request. The party initiating arbitration must notify the
AAA in writing of the request for arbitration under the terms of this Agreement. If a Builder or
contractor initiates arbitration, such Builder or contractor will pay the AAA's filing fee. If an
Owner (including a subsequent purchaser of a Lot) initiates arbitration, such Owner will pay the
lesser of 1/2 of the AAA filing fee or the amount provided by the AAA rules and the Builder or
58

contractor will pay the other 1/2 or remainder. All other AAA arbitration fees and costs shall be
paid in accordance with the applicable AAA fee schedule.
Step 2 - Hearing. The arbitration will be held at a location agreed to by the
(ii)
parties, usually in the metropolitan area where the Property is located. The hearing typically will
be scheduled by the arbitrator at a time mutually agreeable to all parties. At the hearing, the
arbitrator will hear and consider evidence presented by all parties. If a party timely notifies the
AAA of a request for a record of the hearing prior to the earlier of the hearing date or the date in
the AAA's rules, if specified, the arbitrator will preserve all evidence presented at the arbitration.
Oral evidence will be preserved in a manner that it can be converted into a written transcript. The
costs of the record will be paid by the party requesting the record or shared equally among the
parties requesting a copy.
(iii)
Step 3 - Award. The arbitrator's award will decide the relief to be awarded
and, if requested by a party, the scope and manner of correction. The arbitrator's award shall be
consistent with this agreement, based on applicable law (except to the extent the Federal
Arbitration Act overrides and preempts state, local or other law), and shall include findings of fact
and conclusions of law. If permitted by the AAA rules, either party may request a written
explanation of the award. Each party shall bear its own attorney's fees and expenses (including
without limitation the costs and fees of any expert witnesses) in the arbitration, any confirmation
proceeding and any appeal. Arbitrator compensation, expenses, and administrative fees (which
include filing and hearing fees) shall not be subject to reallocation.
(a)
Appeal. Each party shall have the right to appeal the arbitrator's
award to the AAA by filing a written notice with the AAA (with a copy to the other party) within
30 days of the date of the arbitrator's award. The party appealing the award shall pay the fees
necessary to initiate the appeal. If both sides appeal, the fees shall be split 50/50. The notice of
appeal must include the specific items the party seeks to change in the award and the supporting
facts and law. The appeal shall be heard by a panel of three arbitrators from the AAA. The appeal
shall be conducted in accordance with the applicable rules of the AAA and this agreement as if the
claim was being initially filed with the AAA, except that: (i) the only issues to be determined on
appeal are the issues described in the notice of appeal and any issues raised by the non-appealing
party in response to the issues in the notice of appeal, (ii) the arbitrators' award on appeal shall be
final, binding and non-appealable, and (iii) no new evidence shall be accepted or considered by
the arbitrators.
(b)
Award after Appeal. The award of the arbitrator shall be final,
subject to appeal as provided above. If a notice of appeal from the initial hearing is not received
by the AAA within 30 days after the date of the initial award, then the initial award shall be final.
Once the award is final, it will be binding on and enforceable against the parties, except as
modified, corrected, or vacated according to the applicable arbitration rules and procedures or to
the extent not inconsistent with the Federal Arbitration Act or applicable state law. Either party
may present the final award to any court having jurisdiction over the Home Construction Claim to
enter that award as a judgment of the court.
(iv)
Step 4 - Repairs. Unless designated otherwise in the award (and unless
appealed), any party ordered to perform a correction to the residence or Lot will, within 10 days
after a final award, elect to either perform the correction awarded by the arbitrator or, at such
party's option, pay the Owner of the residence or Lot the reasonable cost of such correction. If
such party elects to perform a correction under an award, such party will complete the correction
59

within 60 days after a final award or as may be specified by the arbitrator. If the correction cannot
be completed in that time, the arbitrator must grant reasonable additional time to make the
correction. If the Owner believes that the correction was not performed satisfactorily or in a timely
manner, such Owner may have those issues determined in a later arbitration. If the cost of
correction is not specified in the award and party ordered to perform a correction elects to pay the
Owner the reasonable cost of the correction, such Owner may have the amount of that payment
reviewed in a later arbitration.
12.19.8 Expenses. Except as stated above, each party shall bear its own attorney's
fees and other expenses incurred in connection with a Home Construction Claim. However, if a
party to such a claim files a court action in violation of this Article and the other party is required
to compel arbitration by filing a motion with the court, the court shall award the moving party its
court costs and reasonable attorneys' fees incurred in connection with the motion.
LIKE ALL COVENANTS CONTAINED IN THIS DECLARATION, THE AGREEMENTS
CONTAINED IN THIS ARTICLE ARE COVENANTS RUNNING WITH TITLE TO
EACH LOT, CONCERN EACH LOT AND THE RESIDENCE AND OTHER
IMPROVEMENTS ON SUCH LOT, AND SHALL BE BINDING UPON EACH
SUCCESSIVE OWNER OF A LOT (WHICH INCLUDES WITHOUT LIMITATION
EACH SUBSEQUENT PURCHASER OF A LOT).
