The terms used in this Declaration are intended to have their normal, commonly understood
definitions, unless otherwise specified. In order to minimize repetition, avoid confusion, and
explain key concepts, some terms arc capitalized to indicate they have special definitions.
Whenever used in capitalized foul', those teiiiis have the following meanings:
(a)
"Architectural Control Committee" and/or "ACC" shall mean and refer to the
architectural review body for the Property, as described in Article III. During the Declarant
Control Period (as defined below), the Declarant shall have the sole right to appoint and remove
members of the ACC or may reserve the rights of the ACC and perform for the ACC (directly or
through its designee) as the "Reviewer" (as such term is defined in Section 3.1(d) hereof). Other
certain Declarant rights may exist and Members appointed by Declarant need not be Owners or
Members.
(b)
"Association" shall mean and refer to Whitewing Trails Homeowner's Association,
Inc., a Texas non-profit corporation, or other non-profit corporation formed by the Declarant to
perform the duties of the "Association" hereunder, and which shall have the right to enforce this
Declaration.
(c)
"Board of Directors" or "Board" shall mean and refer to the body selected as
provided in the Bylaws, being responsible for the general governance and administration of the
Association and this Declaration. The initial Board shall be those individuals set forth in the
Certificate of Formation for the Association and, during the time of Declarant control, the
Declarant has the right to appoint and remove all Directors to the Board, provided that prior to the
date which is the earlier of (i) one hundred-twenty (120) days after seventy-five (75%) of the Lots
have been sold to non-Declarant Owners, or (ii) ten (10) years from the date on which the
Declaration is recorded, at least 1/3 of the directors serving on the Board shall be person(s) elected
by a majority vote of Class A Members at a meeting of the members at which quorum is present.
Each Director, other than Directors appointed by Declarant, shall be a Member and resident, or in
the case of corporate or partnership ownership of a Lot, a duly authorized agent or representative
of the corporate or partnership Owner. The corporate, or partnership Owner shall be designated as
the Director in all correspondence or other documentation setting forth the names of the Directors.
(d)
"Builder" shall mean and refer to any person or entity who has acquired a Lot or
Lots for the purpose of constructing a residence thereon for later sale to consumers.
(e)
"Bylaws" shall mean and refer to the Bylaws of the Association, approved by the
Board of Directors, as may be amended from time to time.
(f)
"Common Properties" shall mean all real property (including improvements
thereon) now or hereafter owned, leased or controlled by the Association, or to which the
Association holds possessory or use rights, for the common use and enjoyment of the Owners
(hereinafter defined) including, but not limited to such property which may be: (i) conveyed to the
Association in fee simple title, (ii) leased to the Association, (iii) landscape or maintenance
easements granted or dedicated to the Association by plat or other written instrument, (iv) retention
2

ponds within the Property, and (vi) any other real property or improvement the Association, at the
sole discretion of the Board, decides to maintain.
"Community-Wide Standard" shall mean the standard of conduct, maintenance and
(g)
appearance, including landscaping, generally prevailing throughout the Property or the minimum
standards established pursuant to the Design Guidelines, Rules and Board resolutions, whichever
is the highest standard. Declarant initially shall establish such standard and the Association,
through its Board, shall ensure that the Community-Wide Standard established by the Declaration
for the Property shall continue after the termination or expiration of the Class B membership. The
Community-Wide Standard may contain objective elements, such as specific lawn or house
maintenance requirements, and subjective elements, such as matters subject to the Board's
discretion.
The Community-Wide Standard may or may not be in writing and are subject to the enforcement
rules and regulations of this Declaration or any policy adopted by the Association to include fines
for non-compliance or self-help remedies. The Community-Wide Standard may evolve as
development progresses and as the Property changes. The Community-Wide Standard shall not
fall below the level established for the Property as of the date the Class B membership terminates
or expires. The Community-Wide Standard shall have the right to objectively govern certain
aesthetics as well as the use and placement of certain items within the community such as but, not
limited to, portable basketball goals, playsets, sports equipment, yard lights or decorations, and
yard furniture or any temporary or permanent structure. Failure of an Owner to uphold the
Community Wide Standard or failure to abate any violation given as a breach of a
Community Wide Standard will be treated the same as any other violation of the Declaration,
Bylaws and any rules, regulations, and policies of the Association.
(h)
"County" shall mean and refer to Collin County, Texas, in which the Property is
located, as the context may require.
(i)
"Declarant" shall mean and refer to not only MM Princeton 854, LLC, a Texas
limited liability company, but also any successor, alternate or additional Declarant as appointed
by MM Princeton 854, LLC, as successor, alternate or additional Declarant by written instrument,
filed of record in the office of the County Clerk, specifically setting forth that such successor,
alternate or additional Declarant is to have, in whole or in part, together with MM Princeton 854,
LLC, the Declarant rights, duties, obligations and responsibilities for all or a specific portion or
Phase of the Property. The term "Declarant" shall not include any person or entity that purchases
a Lot from Declarant unless such purchaser is specifically assigned, by a separate recorded
instrument, some or all of the Declarant rights under this Declaration as to the conveyed property.
(j)
"Declarant Control Period" means that period of time during which Declarant
controls the operation and management of the Association, pursuant to Exhibit B of this
Declaration.
(k)
"Design Guidelines" shall mean and refer to the design standards and guidelines
adopted by the Declarant, as may be amended in accordance with Article III, representing the
minimum specifications for the construction of all residences, additions to such residences, and
other improvements associated with each residence including, without limitation, other structures
3

or improvements located on a residential Lot, and the minimum requirements for landscaping to
be installed and maintained on each Lot. The Design Guidelines are an integral part of this
Declaration and the development plan of the Property and/or Subdivision. The initial Design
Guidelines are attached hereto as Exhibit C. All Builders and prospective Owners or those
desirous of constructing a residence on a Lot are strongly encouraged to obtain a current copy of
the Design Guidelines prior to preparing plans and specifications for submission to the
Architectural Control Committee for approval.
(1)
"Development Period" means a period commencing on the date of recordation of
this Declaration in the County real property records, and ending on the date that is the earlier of (i)
fifty (50) years after the date this Declaration is recorded, or (ii) the date on which Declarant
records a written notice of termination of the Development Period in the County real property
records, and during which Declarant has certain rights pursuant to Exhibit B hereto. The
Development Period is for a term of years and does not require that Declarant own land described
in Exhibit A. Declarant may terminate the Development Period at any time by recording a notice
of termination in the County real property records.
(m)
"Final Plat" shall mean, initially, the map or plat of the Property or any portion
thereof, and recorded in the Plat Records of Collin County, Texas, and any future recorded
subdivision maps or plats covering any portion of the Property' or additional real property made
subject to this Declaration, as such Final Plats may be amended from time to time.
(n)
"Fire Station Site" shall mean and refer to that certain 3.0061 acre tract of land
described and/or depicted on Exhibit A-1 attached hereto.
The Property affected by this Declaration is in the vicinity of a fire station. The location of
the fire station in the vicinity of the Property will create noise and traffic disruptions, among
other adverse conditions. While the Association retains certain architectural review and
controls related to the exterior design and/or construction of improvements within the Fire
Station Site, neither the Association, nor the Declarant, nor the ACC, or any of its officers,
directors, managers, members, or constituent parties (the "Association Related Parties")
have any control over the use of the Fire Station Site by the owner thereof or creation of any
adverse conditions thereon. Each Owner by acceptance of title to a Lot acknowledges it has
been advised of the location of the fire station in the vicinity of the Property and waives any
claims against the Association Related Parties with respect to the Fire Station Site.
(o)
"Governing Documents" means, singly or collectively as the case may be, this
Declaration, the Final Plat, the Bylaws, the Association's certificate of formation, and rules,
regulations, and policies of the Association, as any of these may be adopted and/or amended from
time to time. An appendix, exhibit, schedule, or certification accompanying a Governing
Document is a part of that Governing Document. All Governing Documents are to be recorded in
every county in which all or a portion of the Property is located. The Governing Documents are
Dedicatory Instruments as defined in Texas Property Code Section 202.

4

"Lot" shall mean and refer to any one (1) of the enumerated plots or tracts of land
(p)
shown upon a Final Plat, and "Lots" shall mean and refer to more than one (1) of same; provided,
however, Common Properties shall in no event be treated as "Lot" for purposes of this Declaration,
and are hereby specifically excluded from the term "Lot" as used hereunder.
(q)
Article VIII.

"Member" shall mean and refer to a member of the Association, as described in

(r)
"Multi-Family Site" shall mean and refer to that certain 20.106± acre tract of land
described and/or depicted on Exhibit A-2 attached hereto.
The Property affected by this Declaration is in the vicinity of a multi-family or apartment
development. The location of a multi-family or apartment development in the vicinity of the
Property will create noise and traffic disruptions, among other adverse conditions. While
the Association retains certain architectural review and controls related to the exterior
design and/or construction of improvements within the Multi-Family Site, Association
Related Parties have no control over the use of the Multi-Family Site by the owner thereof
or creation of any adverse conditions thereon. Each Owner by acceptance of title to a Lot
acknowledges it has been advised of the location of a multi-family or apartment development
in the vicinity of the Property and waives any claims against the Association Related Parties
with respect to the Multi-Family Site.

(s)
"Outparcel Site" shall mean and refer to that certain 6.314+ acre tract of land
described and/or depicted on Exhibit A-3 attached hereto.

The Property affected by this Declaration is in the vicinity of a retail or commercial
development. The location of a retail or commercial development in the vicinity of the
Property will create noise and traffic disruptions, among other adverse conditions. While
the Association retains certain architectural review and controls related to the exterior
design and/or construction of improvements within the Outparcel Site, Association Related
Parties have no control over the use of the Outparcel Site by the owner thereof or creation of
any adverse conditions thereon. Each Owner by acceptance of title to a Lot acknowledges it
has been advised of the location of a retail or commercial development in the vicinity of the
Property and waives any claims against the Association Related Parties with respect to the
Outparcel Site.

(t)
"Owner" shall mean and refer to each and every person or business entity (whether
one or more), including Declarant (so long as applicable), that is a record owner of a fee or
undivided fee interest in any Lot; provided, however, that (i) the term "Owner" or "Owners" shall
not include any person or entity who holds a bona fide lien or interest in a Lot as security merely
for the performance of an obligation (specifically including, but not limited to, any mortgagee or
trustee under a mortgage or deed of trust) unless and until such mortgagee, beneficiary or trustee
has acquired title to such Lot pursuant to foreclosure or any proceeding in lieu thereof; and (ii)
with respect to any matter requiring the vote, consent, approval or other action of an Owner, each
Lot shall be entitled to only one (1) vote except as provided for in Section 8.2 and Section 15.6
herein.
5

(u)
"Phase" shall mean and refer to each separately developed residential area or
addition as set forth and more fully described on a Final Plat depicting real property that has been
subjected to the Declaration.
(v)
"Property" shall mean and refer to the real property described on Exhibit A, any
improvements now or hereafter situated thereon, and any and all additional real property (and the
improvements thereon) which Declarant hereafter subjects to this Declaration, in accordance with
Article XIV hereof. The Property shall not include the Fire Station Site, the Multi-Family Site or
the Outparcel Site; however, the Multi-Family Site and any other tract of land designated within
the Property by Declarant pursuant to any Supplemental Declaration hereafter filed in the Official
Public Records of Collin County, Texas, for commercial, retail, restaurant, or multi-family use and
part of the "Restricted Outparcels" shall each be subject to the architectural review and control
requirements of Article III hereof, as more specifically set forth in Section 3.8 hereof.
"Supplemental Declaration" shall mean a recorded instrument which accomplishes
(w)
one or more of the following purposes: (i) subjects additional real property to this Declaration, or
(ii) imposes, expressly or by reference, additional restrictions, covenants, easements and/or rights
and obligations on the land described.
