Section 5.1 Lot Maintenance.
After the installation of the landscaping on a Lot by a Builder, the Owner of the Lot shall
thereafter maintain the yard in a sanitary and attractive manner, including adequate watering and
immediate replacement of dead vegetation and trees. Yards shall be mowed, edged, and kept free
of weeds in lawn, tree wells, and flowerbeds in order to maintain lawn in an attractive manner.
The height of grass may be considered on a case by case basis depending upon the type of grass
planted and the mariner in which the yard is maintained; Notwithstanding, no grass shall be allowed
to exceed six inches (6") in height. No vegetables shall be grown in any portion of a Lot or yard
that faces a street or is not screened by fencing built in accordance with the terms hereof

28

Section 5.2 Maintenance of Improvements.
Each Owner shall maintain all exterior portions of the residence and Lot in good condition
and repair at all times. All buildings, fences, walls and other improvements must be kept in good
condition and repair, Owner shall replace worn and rotten parts, and shall regularly repaint all
painted surfaces and shall not permit the roofs, rain gutters, down spouts, exterior walls, windows,
doors, walks, and driveways, parking areas or other exterior portions of the improvements to
deteriorate in an unattractive manner. All fences shall be kept neat, clean and in good repair.
Any fence which is damaged, leaning, or otherwise not in good repair shall be immediately
repaired.
Owners who lease out their residence(s) have the same responsibility and obligation to
keep their residence in good condition and repair at all times. Owners are responsible
for all tenants, occupants, invitees, and guests that violates any rule or restriction.
Fines levied for non-compliance shall be the responsibility of the Owner to pay. If a
tenant, occupant, invitee, or guest of any Owner violates a rule, amenity privileges of
such Owner and its tenant, invitee, occupant or guest in violation may be revoked at
the sole discretion of the Board.
