Section 8.1 Membership.
Every Owner of a Lot shall automatically be a Member of the Association. Membership
shall be appurtenant to each Lot and may not be separated from ownership of any Lot which is
subject to assessment hereunder.
Section 8.2 Classes of Membership.
The Association shall have two (2) classes of voting membership:
CLASS A. Class A Members shall all be Members with the exception of the Class B
Member. Class A Members shall be entitled to one (1) vote for each Lot in which they hold the
interest required for membership; provided, however, that in the event that more than one (1)
person holds such interest or interests in any Lot, even though all such persons shall be Members,
32

there shall be only one (1) vote for such Lot, which shall be exercised as they, among themselves,
determine (but in no event shall more than one (1) vote be cast with respect to any such Lot).
CLASS B. The Class B Member(s) shall be Declarant. Until such time as 99% of the
maximum number of Lots planned or approved for the Property has been conveyed to Class A
Members other than Builders who purchase Lots for development and sale, the Class B Member
shall have twenty-five (25) votes for each Lot owned by such Declarant. Class B Membership shall
expire after title to 99% of the maximum number of Lots planned or approved for the Property has
been transferred to Class A Members other than Builders who purchase Lots for development and
sale. After such time, the Class B Member shall be a Class A Member entitled to one (1) vote for
each Lot it owns. The Declarant Control Period, the Development Period, and Declarant rights are
not contingent upon Declarant's Class B status.
Section 8.3 Quorum and Notice Requirements.
8.3.1. Except as expressly provided herein to the contrary, any action requiring
vote of the Members shall require the assent of a majority of the votes of those Association
Members who are present at a meeting, in person or by proxy. Written notice of any
meeting, except Board Meetings (unless notice of such Board Meeting is required to be
delivered to Members under applicable law), shall be given to all Members not less than
ten (10) days nor more than sixty (60) days in advance of such meeting. Notices shall be
mailed to the address of record. If an Owner fails to keep an updated address and e-mail
on file with the Association, the Association may not be deemed to have failed to provide
notice to that Owner.
8.3.2. A quorum is required for any action referred to in Section 8.3.1, unless
otherwise provided, for any action for which a percentage vote at a meeting is required.
A quorum shall be determined as set forth in this Section 8.3.2. For every meeting of the
Members, with the exception of Board meetings or other meetings as may defined
separately in this Declaration or the Bylaws, whether regular or special, the presence at the
meeting of Members, or of proxies, entitled to cast at least ten percent (10%) of all of the
votes of the Association's Members, without regard to class, shall constitute a quorum. If
the required quorum is not present at the initial meeting, additional meetings may be called,
subject to the notice requirement hereinabove set forth, and the required quorum at such
subsequent meeting(s) shall be one-half (1/2) of the quorum requirement for such prior
meeting. The Association may call as many subsequent meetings as may be required to
achieve a quorum (although the quorum requirement shall be reduced for each such
meeting, in no event shall a quorum be less than one-tenth (1/10) of the votes of the
Association). During the Declarant Period, should quorum not be obtained after the first
meeting, the presence of the Declarant or a delegate of the Declarant shall constitute a
quorum. At such adjourned or subsequent meeting at which a quorum shall be present or
represented, any business may be transacted which may have been transacted at the
meeting as originally notified.

33

8.3.3. Except as specifically set forth in this Declaration, notice, voting and
quorum requirements of any action to be taken by the Association shall be set forth in its
Bylaws, as same may be amended from time to time.

Section 8.4 Right of Inspection.
Each Owner shall have the right to inspect the financial records and books of the
Association, during normal business hours and at the place where such books are kept, upon
reasonable prior written notice sent by certified mail to the Association stating a proper purpose in
accordance with Section 209.005 of the Texas Property Code, as amended, and pursuant to the
Open Records Policy established by the Association.
