Section 4.1 Fences, Walls and Screening Landscaping.
Declarant and/or the Association shall have the right, but not the obligation, to erect, install,
maintain, repair and/or replace fences, walls and/or screening landscaping within that portion of
any Lot situated along the perimeter of the Property or on Lots adjacent to Common Properties, as
shown on a Final Plat. Any such fence, wall or sprinkler system shall be the property of the
Owner of the Lot on which such fence, wall or sprinkler system is erected or installed, subject to
the easements and rights of Declarant and the Association set forth below.
With respect to any fencing installed within a Lot that is adjacent to a thoroughfare, the
Association shall have the exclusive right to make repairs and stain the exterior of such fence
facing the thoroughfare whenever, in the Board's sole and absolute discretion, it deems necessary.
Should such repairs extend beyond the normal replacement of broken pickets or correction of
leaning fences, and other such minor repairs as determined by the Association through the Board
in its sole and absolute discretion, the Association shall have the right to bill such repairs hack to
the Owner of the Lot on which such fence improvements are located, and levy such charges to
such Owner's account as a Special Individual Assessment.

27

Section 4.2 Landscaping.
Declarant and/or the Association shall have the right to grade, plant and/or landscape and
maintain, repair, replace and/or change such grading, planting and landscaping on any portion of
the Property not comprising any portion of a Lot and, without limitation whatsoever, to do all
things necessary within the Property to obtain full compliance with applicable City ordinances.
Section 4.3 Easement.
Declarant and the Association shall have, and hereby reserve, the right and easement to
enter upon the Common Properties and those Lots which are situated along the perimeter of the
Property and/or the Common Properties, as shown on a Final Plat, or the Lots adjacent to a
thoroughfare, for the purpose of exercising the discretionary rights set forth in this Article IV.
Section 4.4 Declarant and the Association's Discretion.
Notwithstanding any provisions herein to the contrary, neither Declarant nor the
Association shall ever be obligated to erect, install, maintain, repair or replace any fences, walls,
sprinkler systems, grading, planting or landscaping on the Property.
Section 4.5 Twenty (20) Year Limitation.
The provisions of this Article IV regarding Declarant's rights shall terminate and be of no
further force and effect from and after that date which is twenty (20) years after the recording of
this Declaration. Declarant may waive said right prior to the twenty (20) years by filing a waiver
with the Collin County Clerk's Office. The rights of the Association shall continue throughout
the term hereof.
