Section 14.1 Expansion of the Property.
Declarant, in its sole discretion and without the approval of any other party, may from time
to time subject this Declaration to additional real property by recording in the Real Property
Records of the County, a Supplemental Declaration describing the additional real property to be
subjected to this Declaration. Any such Supplemental Declaration which is executed by
Declarant and the owner of such additional property, if other than Declarant, and recorded in the
Real Property Records of the County shall not require the consent or approval of any other Owner
or other person in order to be fully enforceable and effective to cause such additional real property
to he incorporated herein. Nothing in this Declaration shall be construed to require Declarant to
subject additional real property to this Declaration.

61

Section 14.2 Additional Covenants and Easements.
Declarant, in its sole discretion and without the approval of any other party, may from time
to time subject any portion of the Property, whether now or hereafter a part of this Declaration, to
additional covenants and easements, including, without limitation, covenants obligating the
Association to maintain and insure such property and authorizing the Association to recover its
costs through the assessments, as described in Article X hereof. Such additional covenants and
easements may be set forth either in a Supplemental Declaration subjecting such property to this
Declaration or in a separate Supplemental Declaration referencing property previously subjected
to this Declaration. Any such Supplemental Declaration may supplement, create exceptions to,
or otherwise modify the terms of this Declaration as it applies to the Property, whether now or
hereafter a part of this Declaration, in order to reflect the different character and intended use of
such Property. Any such Supplemental Declaration which is executed by Declarant and recorded
in the Real Property Records of the County shall not require the consent or approval of any other
Owner or other person in order to be fully enforceable and effective to cause such additional
covenants and easements to be incorporated herein.
Section 14.3 Effect of Recording Supplemental Declaration.
A Supplemental Declaration shall be effective upon the recording of same in the Real
Property Records of the County unless otherwise specified in such Supplemental Declaration. On
the effective date of the Supplemental Declaration, any additional property subjected to this
Declaration shall be assigned voting rights in the Association and assessment liability in
accordance with the provisions of this Declaration.
