Section 3.1 Review Authority.
(a)
General. Declarant and the Association will, in all likelihood engage the services
of third-party professionals including architects, engineers, or other persons to perfoiin and
administer the submission, review and inspection process which may be required or necessary
under this Article. Declarant reserves the right to implement and enforce additional application,
permitting, review, testing and inspection requirements and procedures not contained herein
relating to national or uniform codes pertaining to building, electrical, plumbing and any other
aspect of construction or development as deemed necessary by Declarant.
(b)
Declarant. Declarant shall have exclusive authority to administer, review and act
upon all applications for architectural and other improvements within the Property until all planned
Lots have been conveyed to persons other than Declarant or a Builder and have been improved
with a residence for which a certificate of occupancy has been issued, unless Declarant earlier
teiiuinates its rights in a recorded instrument. Declarant may designate or engage one or more
persons or entities to act on its behalf with respect to some or all matters coming within the purview
of this Article III which persons need not be Owners or Members. In reviewing and acting upon
any request for approval, Declarant or its designee act solely in Declarant's interest and owe no
duty to any other person. Declarant is not required to hold meetings or keep minutes relating to
its review under this Article.
Declarant may from time to time delegate or assign all or any portion of its rights under
this Article to any other person, entity or committee, including the Architectural Control
Committee. Any such delegation shall be in writing, shall specify the delegated responsibilities,
and shall be subject to (i) Declarant's right to revoke such delegation at any time and reassume its
prior jurisdiction, and (ii) Declarant's right to veto any decision which it determines, in its
discretion, to be inappropriate or inadvisable for any reason. So long as Declarant has any rights
under this Article, the jurisdiction of other entities shall be limited to such matters as Declarant
specifically delegates.
(c)
Architectural Control Committee.
Upon Declarant's delegation or upon
expiration or termination of Declarant's rights under this Article, the Association, acting through
the ACC, shall assume jurisdiction over architectural matters. The ACC shall consist of at least
three persons. From and after Declarant's rights to administer, review and act upon application
for architectural and other improvements within the Property has expired or terminated, the ACC
shall be Class A Members of the Association or representatives of Members, and may, but need
not, include architects, engineers, or similar professionals, who may be compensated in such
manner and amount, if any, as the Board may establish. The ACC members shall be appointed
and serve at the sole discretion of the Board and shall be designated, shall serve, and may be
removed and replaced in the Board's discretion. An ACC member may be removed and replaced
at any time and from time upon written notice to the ACC and the member being removed.
For so long as Declarant owns any portion of the Property (and unless the Declarant notifies
the ACC in writing to the contrary), the ACC shall notify Declarant in writing, no less than thirteen
21

(13) business days prior to communicating any action (i.e., approval, partial approval, or
disapproval) it intends to take under this Article. A copy of the application and any additional
information that Declarant may require shall accompany the notice. During such time, Declarant
shall have the right, in its sole and absolute discretion, to veto any ACC action; provided,
Declarant's right to veto must be exercised within ten (10) business days after it receives notice of
the ACC's proposed action. The party submitting the plans for approval shall not be notified of
the ACC's proposed action until after Declarant's right to veto has expired.
The Board may create and appoint subcommittees of the ACC. Subcommittees may be
established to preside over particular areas of review (e.g., landscape plans) and shall be governed
by procedures the Board or the ACC may establish. Any subcommittee's actions are subject to
review and approval by Declarant, for as long as Declarant may review the ACC's decisions, and
the ACC. Notwithstanding the above, neither the ACC nor Declarant shall be obligated to review
all actions of any subcommittee, and the failure to take action in any instance shall not be a waiver
of the right to act in the future.
Unless and until such time as Declarant delegates any of its reserved rights to the ACC or
Declarant's rights under this Article expire or terminate, the Association shall have no jurisdiction
over architectural matters.
Reviewer. The entity having jurisdiction in a particular case, whether Declarant
(d)
or its designee or the ACC, shall be referred to as the "Reviewer".
(e)
Fees; Assistance. The Reviewer may establish and charge reasonable fees as well
as rush fees for its review of each application and shall require that such fees be paid in advance.
If such fees or charges, including those set forth under Section 3.3 below, are not paid in advance,
the Reviewer shall have no obligation whatsoever to review any such related application. Such
fees may include the reasonable costs incurred in having any application reviewed by architects,
engineers, or other professionals and the Board may include the compensation of such persons in
the Association's annual operating budget.
Section 3.2 Review Requirements.
No building, including detached structure such as but, not limited to garages, guest or
servant's quarters, walls, pool or other structures shall be commenced, erected, installed, placed,
or substantially altered on any Lot, nor shall any exterior painting (other than repainting a structure
the same or similar color) of, exterior addition to, or substantial alteration of, such items be made
until all plans and specifications and a plot plan have been submitted to and approved in writing
by the Reviewer. The Reviewer is authorized and empowered to consider and review any and all
aspects of construction and landscaping which may, in the reasonable opinion of the Reviewer,
adversely affect the living enjoyment of one (1) or more Owners or the general value of the
Property. In reviewing each submission, the Reviewer may consider any factors it deems relevant,
including, without limitation, harmony of the proposed exterior design with surrounding structures
and environment. Decisions may be based on purely aesthetic considerations. Each Owner
acknowledges that aesthetic determinations are purely subjective and that opinions may vary as to
the desirability and/or attractiveness of particular improvements. The Reviewer shall have the
22

sole discretion to make final, conclusive, and binding determinations on matters of aesthetic
judgment and such determinations are not subject to judicial review so long as they are made in
good faith and in accordance with the required procedures.
Section 3.3 Procedure for Approval.
PRIOR TO THE COMMENCEMENT OF ANY CONSTRUCTION BY ANY PERSON
OR ENTITY, THE BUILDER SHALL OBTAIN FROM THE REVIEWER A BUILDING
PERMIT AND SHALL PAY, IN ADVANCE, ANY RELATED INSPECTION FEES AND
FEES OWING OR TO BE OWED AS DETERMINED BY THE REVIEWER. THIS
REQUIREMENT NOT ONLY APPLIES TO ORIGINAL CONSTRUCTION BUT TO POOL
INSTALLATIONS, MODIFICATIONS OR ADDITIONS TO EXISTING STRUCTURES OF
IMPROVEMENTS. FAILURE TO OBTAIN SUCH PERMIT OR PAY SUCH FEES PRIOR
TO INITIATION OF CONSTRUCTION SHALL BE CAUSE FOR THE REVIEWER OR THE
ASSOCIATION TO REQUEST AND OBTAIN EMERGENCY TEMPORARY RELIEF TO
RESTRAIN ALL ASPECTS OF CONSTRUCTION. FINES FOR FAILURE TO OBTAIN
PRIOR WRITTEN REVIEWER'S APPROVAL MAY BE LEVIED BY THE BOARD OR THE
REVIEWER UP TO $1,000.00 PER VIOLATION OCCURRENCE.
In addition to the foregoing requirement, final plans and specifications may be submitted
in hardcopy form by mail or hand delivery to the Reviewer. Applications for modifications other
than new home construction may be submitted electronically. Contact the managing agent for
information on how to submit applications online or by electronic mail. The Owner or Builder
shall be solely responsible to ensure delivery of the plans. The Declarant, Reviewer, or the
Association shall not be responsible for plans lost in the mail. The plans and specifications shall
show the nature, kind, shape, height, materials and location of all landscaping and improvements.
The application shall specify in writing any requested variances from the requirements set forth in
this Declaration, the Design Guidelines or any Community-Wide Standard. The Reviewer is
authorized to request the submission of samples of proposed construction materials and such other
infoimation as they reasonably deem necessary to make their deter urination. Applications shall
not be considered complete until the Reviewer determines that all required information needed for
proper architectural review has been received. At such time as the plans and specifications meet
the approval of the Reviewer, one complete set of plans and specifications will be retained by the
Association and another complete set of plans shall be marked "Approved" and returned to the Lot
Owner or his designated representative. If disapproved by the Reviewer, one set of such plans
shall be returned marked "Disapproved" and shall be accompanied by a reasonable statement of
the reasons for disapproval. Any modification of the approved set of plans and specifications
must again be submitted to the Reviewer for its approval. The Reviewer's approval or
disapproval, as required herein, shall always be in writing NO VERBAL APPROVAL SHALL
EVER BE GIVEN OR PRESUMED. Any reliance upon a verbal approval of any plans by the
Reviewer shall be wholly unjustified, at the risk of the Lot Owner and subject to any subsequent
or otherwise conflicting written response by the Reviewer.
If the Reviewer fails to approve or disapprove any such plans and specifications or
modification thereto submitted by a Builder within ten (10) business days after the date of
submission of all information shall be deemed to have been approved notwithstanding, it shall be
the sole responsibility of the Builder to ensure that all requirements or restrictions as set forth in
23

this Declaration or the Design Guidelines are adhered to as well as any city ordinance which may
exist.
The Reviewer, The Association or its managing agent shall not be held responsible for a Builder's
failure to adhere to all applicable Design Guidelines and City Ordinances as it exists or may be
amended. Failure to comply could result in a request for the removal and / or replacement
of any non-conforming structure or items and/or a fine for non-compliance. Any Builder
who is constructing residences on multiple Lots shall have the option of submitting a master set of
final plans and specifications for all of the residences it intends to construct within the Property to
the Reviewer in accordance with the provisions of this paragraph. Once the master set of plans
has been approved, the Builder shall be allowed to construct residences in accordance with such
approved plans and no further submittals shall be required unless material deviations have been
made to such approved plans.
For all other plans the Reviewer shall have up to thirty (30) business days after the date of
submission of all information the Reviewer requires in order to review and submit a decision.
Should the Reviewer fail to provide a response within thirty (30) business days, the plan shall be
deemed to be disapproved. The Reviewer may, but is not obligated to, pennit or require that plans
be submitted or considered in stages, in which case, a final decision shall not be required until after
the final, required submission stage. The Reviewer may establish and charge fees for rush
requests. This process is at the sole discretion of the Board and the ACC after the Declarant
Control Period ends.
As part of any approval, the Reviewer may require that construction in accordance with
approved plans commence within a specified time period. If construction does not commence
within the required period, the approval shall expire and the Owner must reapply for approval
before commencing any activities. Once commenced, construction must be diligently pursued to
completion. All construction work shall be completed within one (1) year of commencement
unless otherwise specified in the notice of approval or the Design Guidelines, or unless the
Reviewer, in its discretion, grants an extension in writing. If approved work is not completed
within the required time, it shall be in violation of this Article and shall be subject to enforcement
action.
Also, as a part of the review process, the Reviewer may require that the construction of any
improvement be inspected on a periodic basis prior to completion for compliance with the plans,
codes adopted by the Declarant and other matters relating to the quality or method of construction.
The Association may conduct such inspections or, in the alternative, it may contract with third
parties for such purposes. The Owner on whose Lot the construction is taking place shall be
responsible for the payment of costs relating to any such inspection. Builders must keep
construction areas clean and free of debris. A industrial sized construction waste bin must be
maintained on lots to hold waste. Builders and contractors are expected to act with respect and
consideration at all times toward Owners and other contractors. Streets within the Association
must be kept clean and free of mud and dirt. Builder or contractors shall hire street cleaners when
needed to keep streets clean and free of debris. Builders shall ensure tool boxes, containers, and
other equipment is kept closed to prevent spilling of debris or construction items into street.
LOTS SHALL BE KEPT CLEAN AND PROPER BINS FOR CONSTRUCTION DEBRIS
AND TRASH ARE REQUIRED. Builders are responsible for their workers.
24

Section 3.4 Standards.
The Reviewer shall have sole discretion with respect to taste, design and all standards
specified herein. One objective of the Reviewer is to prevent unusual, radical, curious, odd,
bizarre, peculiar or irregular structures from being built on the Property. The Reviewer shall have
the authority to interpret and amend the Design Guidelines, subject to Declarant's approval for so long as
Declarant or any Builder owns any portion of the Property and, thereafter, subject to the approval of the
Board. Any amendment shall be filed as a dedicatory instrument and delivered or made available to all
Class A Members. The Association may use any electronic means of delivery or website or other
electronic platform to make such amendments available to Owners. The Reviewer may from time to
time publish and promulgate bulletins regarding architectural standards, which shall be fair,
reasonable and uniformly applied and shall carry forward the spirit and intention of this
Declaration.
Section 3.5 Requests for Variance.
Upon submission of a written narrative request for same, the Reviewer may, from time to
time, in its sole discretion, permit Owners and Builders to construct, erect or install improvements
which are in variance from the requirements of this Declaration or which may be contained in the
Design Guidelines. In any case, however, such variances shall be in basic conformity and shall
blend effectively with the general architectural style and design of the Subdivision. No member
of the ACC or the Board, or the Association or Declarant shall be liable to any Owner or other
person claiming by, through, or on behalf of any Owner, for any claims, causes of action, or
damages arising out of the granting or denial of, or other action or failure to act upon, any variance
request by any Owner or any person acting for or on behalf of any Owner. Each request for a
variance submitted hereunder shall be reviewed separately and apart from other such requests and
the grant of a variance to any Owner shall not constitute a waiver of the Reviewer's right to strictly
enforce the Declaration, the Design Guidelines or the against any other Owner. Each such written
request must identify and set forth in narrative detail the specific restriction or standard from which
a variance is sought and describe in complete detail the exact nature of the variance sought. Any
grant of a variance by the Reviewer must be in writing and must identify in narrative detail both
the standard from which a variance is being sought and the specific variance being granted.
Section 3.6 Liability of Reviewer.
Neither Declarant, the Board of Directors, the Architectural Control Committee, nor any
of their respective members, officers, employees, designees, contractors, administrators,
inspectors and agents, shall have any liability whatsoever for decisions made in accordance with
this Article so long as such decisions are made in good faith and are not arbitrary or capricious.
The plans or the site plan submitted to the Reviewer shall be the responsibility of the Owner of the
Lot to which the improvements relate, and the Reviewer shall have no obligation to check for
errors in or omissions from any such plans, or to check for such plans' compliance with the general
provisions of this Declaration, or any codes, ordinances, regulations or other laws, whether
statutory or not, and whether the same relate to Lot lines, building lines, easements or any other
issue. Review and approval of any plans pursuant to this Article may be based on purely aesthetic
considerations. The Reviewer is not responsible for the structural integrity or soundness of
approved construction or modifications, for compliance with building codes and other
25

governmental requirements, or for ensuring that every residence is of comparable quality, value,
or size, of similar design, or aesthetically pleasing or otherwise acceptable to other Owners.
THE ASSOCIATION HEREBY UNCONDITIONALLY AND PERPETUALLY
INDEMNIFIES AND HOLDS DECLARANT, THE BOARD, THE ARCHITECTURAL
CONTROL COMMITTEE, AND THEIR RESPECTIVE MEMBERS, EMPLOYEES,
DESIGNEES, ADMINISTRATORS, INSPECTORS, CONTRACTORS, AND AGENTS
HARMLESS FROM AND AGAINST ANY CLAIMS, LIABILITIES, LOSS, DAMAGE,
COSTS AND EXPENSES, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO ATTORNEYS' FEES,
IN CONNECTION WITH OR ARISING OUT OF ANY ACTIONS OR INACTIONS
TAKEN HEREUNDER BY THE REVIEWER, IRRESPECTIVE OF WHETHER OR NOT
THE REVIEWER, ITS EMPLOYEES, CONTRACTORS, AGENTS AND OTHER
INDIVIDUALS OR ENTITIES TO OR EMPLOYED BY THE REVIEWER ACTED
NEGLIGENTLY OR WITH WILLFUL MISCONDUCT.
Section 3.7 Special Rights of Declarant.
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, any Lot owned by Declarant or
its successor or assign, shall not be subject to the provisions of this Article III and Declarant shall
not be required to submit plans and specifications, etc. to the Architectural Control Committee nor
obtain the consent, permission or approval of the Architectural Control Committee for the matters
otherwise required pursuant to this Article III, and the consent, permission or approval of the
Architectural Control Committee shall be deemed given for plans and specifications, plot plans
and the like to be used by Declarant, or Declarant's assigns, in the construction of any residence
on any Lot owned or sold to a Builder by Declarant. DECLARANT ALSO RETAINS SPECIAL
AND UNIQUE RIGHTS AND PRIVILEGES IN ARTICLE XII THAT TAKE PRECEDENCE
OVER ALL OTIIER ARTICLES OR SECTIONS IN THIS DECLARATION.
Section 3.8 Review of Restricted Outparcels.
The Declarant may designate from and after the date of this Declaration by
(a)
recordation of a Supplemental Declaration in the Official Public Records of Collin County Texas
making reference to this Declaration, any portion of the Property to be developed for commercial,
retail, restaurant or multi-family uses as a "Restricted Outparcel" (herein so called and collectively,
the "Restricted Outparcels", and each generally referred to herein as a "Restricted Outparcel"),
and upon such designation, the Restricted Outparcel shall not be subject to, and shall be
automatically excluded from, the covenants, conditions, restrictions, telins and assessments set
forth in this Declaration, except as specifically provided in this Section 3.8. The initial Restricted
Outparcel hereby designated by Declarant shall be the Multi-Family Site. Owners of any
Restricted Outparcel are not Members of the Association, however, by acceptance of title to and
occupancy of any Restricted Outparcel, the owners of the Restricted Outparcels and their
occupants agree to be bound by the terms of this Section 3.8 for the benefit of each Member and
the Association. The terms of this Section 3.8 may be enforced against each Restricted Outparcel
and any owner or occupant thereof by the Association, and also by Declarant during the Declarant
Control Period.

26

(b)
Any building, structure or other improvements to be constructed within any
Restricted Outparcel (including, without limitation, and renovation, expansion or alteration
thereof) (the "Restricted Outparcel Improvements") shall be subject to the prior review and
approval of the Reviewer in accordance with the teens of this Article III applying the same
procedures and requirements as if such Restricted Outparcel were one of the Lots; provided,
however, the Reviewer may (hut is not obligated to) establish and impose differing Design
Guidelines specifically tailored to each Restricted Outparcel. The Association or Declarant may
exercise any right or remedies hereunder that would apply to an Owner of a Lot, or at law or in
equity, including, without limitation, the right to injunctive relief, in the event of a failure of the
owner of a Restricted Outparcel to obtain the prior written consent and approval of the Reviewer
with respect to any Restricted Outparcel Improvements, as required by the terms of this Section
3.8.
(c)
No Restricted Outparcel shall be included in the Property or Common Properties
described in this Declaration. Neither the Association, nor declarant, shall have any obligations
to maintain or repair any portion of the Restricted Outparcels or any Restricted Outparcel
Improvements thereon. The Restricted Outparcels and the Restricted Outparcel Improvements
are made subject to this Declaration solely for the purposes of establishing and enforcing the
architectural review and control rights of the Association and the Reviewer in accordance with this
Article III.
