Exhibit E
TO
DECLARATION OF COVENANTS,
CONDITIONS AND RESTRICTIONS FOR
WHITEWING TRAILS

Bylaws

BYLAWS
OF
WHITEWING TRAILS HOMEOWNER'S ASSOCIATION, INC.

ARTICLE I
INTRODUCTION
The name of the corporation is Whitewing Trails Homeowner's Association, Inc., a
Texas non-profit corporation, hereinafter referred to as the "Association". The principal office
of the Association shall be located in Collin County, Texas, but meetings of Members and
Directors may be held at such places within the State of Texas, as may be designated by the
Board of Directors.
The Association is organized to be a nonprofit corporation.
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in these Bylaws, a number of provisions
are modified by the Declarant's reservations in that certain Declaration of Covenants,
Conditions and Restrictions for Whitewing Trails Homeowner's Association, Inc. recorded
in the Official Public Records of Collin County, Texas, including the number, qualification,
appointment, removal, and replacement of Directors.
ARTICLE II
DEFINITIONS
Unless the context otherwise specifies or requires, the following words and phrases when
used in these Bylaws shall have the meanings hereinafter specified:
Section 2.1. Assessment. "Assessment" or "Assessments" shall mean assessment(s)
levied by the Association under the Willis and provisions of the Declaration.
Section 2.2. Association. "Association" shall mean and refer to Whitewing Trails
Homeowner's Association, Inc., a Texas non-profit corporation.
Section 2.3. Association Property. "Association Property" shall mean all real or
personal property now or hereafter owned by the Association, including without limitation, all
easement estates, licenses, leasehold estates and other interests of any kind in and to real or
personal property which are now are hereafter owned or held by the Association.
Section 2.4. Association Restrictions. "Association Restrictions" shall mean the
Declaration of Covenants, Conditions and Restrictions for Whitewing Trails Homeowner's
Association, Inc., as the same may be amended from time to time, together with the Certificate,
Bylaws, and Association Rules from time to time in effect.
Section 2.5. Association Rules. "Association Rules" shall mean the rules and
regulations adopted by the Board pursuant to the Declaration, as the same may be amended from
time to time.
005782\00089\2680768.1

Section 2.6. Board. "Board" shall mean the Board of Directors of the Association.
During the period of Declarant control, Declarant shall have the sole right to appoint and remove
Directors of the Board.
Section 2.7. Bylaws. "Bylaws" shall mean the Bylaws of the Association which may be
adopted by the Board and as the same may be amended from time to time.
Section 2.8. Certificate. "Certificate" shall mean the Certificate of Formation for
Whitewing Trails Homeowner's Association, Inc., a Texas non-profit corporation, filed in the
office of the Secretary of State of the State of Texas, as the same may from time to time be
amended.
Section 2.9. Declarant. "Declarant" shall mean MM Princeton 854, LLC, a Texas
limited liability company, and its duly authorized representatives or their successors or assigns;
provided that any assignment of the rights of Declarant must be expressly set forth in writing and
the mere conveyance of a portion of the Property without written assignment of the rights of
Declarant shall not be sufficient to constitute an assignment of the rights of Declarant hereunder.
Section 2.10. Declaration. "Declaration" shall mean the "Declaration of Covenants,
Conditions and Restrictions for Whitewing Trails Homeowner's Association, Inc.", recorded in
the Official Public Records of Collin County, Texas, as the same may be amended from time to
time.
Section 2.11. Development. "Development" shall mean and refer to the property
subject to the terms and provisions of the Declaration.
Section 2.12. Manager. "Manager" shall mean the person, film, or corporation, if any,
employed by the Association pursuant to the Declaration and delegated the duties, powers, or
functions of the Association.
Section 2.13. Member. "Member" or "Members" shall mean any person(s), entity or
entities holding membership privileges in the Association as provided in the Declaration.
Section 2.14. Mortgage. "Mortgage" or "Mortgages" shall mean any mortgage(s) or
deed(s) of trust covering any portion of the Property given to secure the payment of a debt.
Section 2.15. Mortgagee. "Mortgagee" or "Mortgagees" shall mean the holder or
holders of any lien or liens upon any portion of the Property.
Section 2.16. Owner. "Owner" or "Owners" shall mean the person(s), entity or entities,
including Declarant, holding a fee simple interest in any Lot, but shall not include the Mortgagee
of a Mortgage.
Unless otherwise defined in these Bylaws or the context otherwise requires, each term used in
these Bylaws with its initial letter capitalized which has been specifically defined in the
Declaration and not otherwise specifically defined in this Article H shall have the same meaning
herein as given to such tetut in the Declaration.

2

WHITEWING TRAII.S HOMEOWNER'S ASSOCIATION, INC.BYLA

ARTICLE III
MEETING OF MEMBERS
Section 3.1. Annual Meetings. The first annual meeting of the Members shall be held
on such date as selected by the Board of Directors which is on or before the earlier of (i) the date
which is one hundred twenty (120) days after seventy-five percent (75%) of the Lots have been
sold to non-Declarant Owners, or (ii) ten (10) years from the date on which the Declaration is
recorded in the Official Public Records of Collin County, Texas, and each subsequent regular
annual meeting of the Members shall be held on such date as selected by the Board of Directors
who shall, whenever possible, hold the annual meeting in the same month each year thereafter
unless a different date is selected by the Board of Directors. The annual meeting shall not be
held on a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday.
Section 3.2. Special Meetings. Special meetings of the Members may be called at any
time by the President or by a majority vote of the Board of Directors, or upon written request of
the Members who are entitled to vote fifty-one percent (51%) or more of the votes of the
Association.
Section 3.3. Place of Meetings. Meetings of the Association may be held at the
Development or at a suitable place convenient to the Members, as determined by the Board.
Section 3.4. Notice of Meetings. At the direction of the Board, written notice of
meetings of the Association will be given to the Members at least ten (10) days but not more than
sixty (60) days prior to the meeting. Notices of meetings will state the date, time, and place the
meeting is to be held. Notices will identify the type of meeting as annual or special, and will
state the particular purpose of a special meeting. Notices may also set forth any other items of
information deemed appropriate by the Board.
Section 3.5. Voting Member List. The Board will prepare and make available a list of
the Association's voting Members in accordance with the Texas Business Organization Code.
Section 3.6. Quorum. The presence at the meeting of Members entitled to cast, or of
proxies entitled to cast, ten percent (10%) of the total votes of the membership shall constitute a
quorum for any action, except as otherwise provided in the Certificate, the Declaration, or these
Bylaws. If the required quorum is not present, another meeting may be called subject to the
same notice requirement, and the required quorum at the subsequent meeting shall be five
percent (5%) of all the votes of all Members. No such subsequent meeting shall be held more
than thirty (30) days following the preceding meeting. If the required quorum is not present or
represented at any meeting, the Members entitled to vote at the meeting shall have power to
adjourn the meeting from time to time, without notice other than announcement at the meeting,
until a quorum shall be present or represented.
Section 3.7. Proxies. Votes may be cast in person or by written proxy. To be valid,
each proxy must: (i) be signed and dated by a Member or his attorney-in-fact; (ii) identify the
Lot to which the vote is appurtenant; (iii) name the person or title (such as "presiding officer") in
favor of whom the proxy is granted, such person having agreed to exercise the proxy;
(iv) identify the meeting for which the proxy is given; (v) not purport to be revocable without
notice; and (vi) be delivered to the secretary, to the person presiding over the Association
3

WHITEWING TRAILS HOMEOWNER'S ASSOCIATION, INC.BYLA

meeting for which the proxy is designated, or to a person or company designated by the Board.
Unless the proxy specifies a shorter or longer time, it terminates eleven (11) months after the
date of its execution. Perpetual or self-renewing proxies are permitted, provided they are
revocable. To revoke a proxy, the granting Member must give actual notice of revocation to the
person presiding over the Association meeting for which the proxy is designated. Unless
revoked, any proxy designated for a meeting which is adjourned, recessed, or rescheduled is
valid when the meeting reconvenes. A proxy may be delivered by fax. However, a proxy
received by fax may not be counted to make or break a tie-vote unless: (a) the proxy has been
acknowledged or sworn to by the Member, before and certified by an officer authorized to take
acknowledgments and oaths; or (b) the Association also receives the original proxy within five
(5) days after the vote.
Section 3.8. Conduct of Meetings. The president, or any person designated by the
Board, presides over meetings of the Association. The secretary keeps, or causes to be kept, the
minutes of the meeting which should record all resolutions adopted and all transactions occurring
at the meeting, as well as a record of any votes taken at the meeting. The person presiding over
the meeting may appoint a parliamentarian. Votes should be tallied by tellers appointed by the
person presiding over the meeting.
Section 3.9. Order of Business. Unless the notice of meeting states otherwise or the
assembly adopts a different agenda at the meeting, the order of business at meetings of the
Association is as follows:
—
—

Determine votes present by roll call or check-in procedure
Announcement of quorum
Proof of notice of meeting
Approval of minutes of preceding meeting
Reports of Officers (if any)
Election of Directors (when required)
Unfinished or old business
New business

Section 3.10. Adjournment of Meeting. At any meeting of the Association, a majority
of the Members present at that meeting, either in person or by proxy, may adjourn the meeting to
another time and place.
Section 3.11. Action without Meeting. Subject to Board approval, any action which
may be taken by a vote of the Members at a meeting of the Association may also be taken
without a meeting by written consents. The Board may permit Members to vote by any method
allowed by the Texas Business Organization Code, which may include hand delivery, United
States Mail, facsimile, e-mail, or any combination of these. Written consents by Members
representing at least a majority of votes in the Association, or such higher percentage as may be
required by the Documents, constitutes approval by written consent. This Section may not be
used to avoid the requirement of an annual meeting and does not apply to the election of
Directors.

4

WI IITEWING TRAILS HOMEOWNER'S ASSOCIATION, INC.BYLA

Section 3.12. Telephone Meetings. Members of the Association may participate in and
hold meetings of the Association by means of conference telephone or similar communications
equipment by means of which all persons participating in the meeting can hear each other.
Participation in the meeting constitutes presence in person at the meeting, except where a person
participates in the meeting for the express purpose of objecting to the transaction of any business
on the ground that the meeting is not lawfully called or convened.
ARTICLE IV
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Section 4.1. Authority; Number of Directors.
(a)
The affairs of the Association shall be governed by a Board of Directors. The
number of Directors shall be fixed by the Board of Directors from time to time. The initial
Directors shall be three (3) in number and shall be those Directors named in the Certificate of
Formation. The Board of Directors may increase or decrease the number of Directors to serve on
the Board of Directors at any given time by a majority vote of the Board of Directors, provided
that (i) at no time will there be more than five (5) or less than three (3) Director positions on the
Board of Directors, and (ii) after the right of Declarant to appoint Directors to the Board of
Directors expires, any new Director positions established by the Board shall not be deemed
vacant and shall be established effective as of the date a new Director is elected into such
position and shall be filled at the election held at the next scheduled annual meeting of
Association or other special meeting scheduled for Board elections where required notice of such
meeting has been provided in compliance with any and all applicable laws. The initial Directors
shall serve until their successors are elected and qualified. Except as is provided in the
Declaration and in Sections 4.1(b) and 4.1(c) below, Declarant shall have the absolute right
to appoint and remove members of the Board of Directors during for as long as Declarant
owns any Lot affected by the Declaration.
(b)
From and after the first annual meeting of Members and until the date (the
"Transition Date") which is the earlier of (i) one hundred-twenty (120) days after seventy-five
(75%) of the Lots have been sold to non-Declarant Owners, or (ii) ten (10) years from the date
on which the Declaration is recorded in the Official Public Records of Collin County, Texas, the
Board of Directors shall consist of three (3) persons appointed by Declarant who need not be
Members of the Association. On and after the Transition Date, the Board of Directors shall
include two (2) persons appointed by Declarant and one (1) person elected by a majority vote of
Class A Members ("Non-Declarant Director") at such meeting at which quorum is present,
which Non-Declarant Member shall serve for a period which is the shorter of one (1) year, or
until the next annual meeting of the Members at which the Non-Declarant Member (or
replacement thereof) shall be elected. The Non-Declarant Director shall be elected at the first
annual meeting (or special meeting called for such purpose by the President of the Association)
of Members held on or after the Transition Date. On and after the date on which the last Lot is
sold to a non-Declarant Owner (the "Declarant Turnover Date"), the President of the Association
will call a meeting of the Members of the Association where the Members will elect one (1)
Director for a three (3) year term, and two (2) Directors for a two (2) year term. The member
obtaining the most votes will serve the three (3) year term and the remaining two (2) will serve a
term of two (2) years. Upon expiration of the term of a Director elected by Members at the first

5

WHITEWING TRAILS HOMEOWNER'S ASSOCIATION, INC.BYLA

meeting of the Members after the Declarant Turnover Date pursuant to this Section 4.1(b), his or
her successors shall serve a term of two (2) years. Any additional Director positions established
by the Board shall be for terms to ensure staggering of the terms of Directors, as determined
reasonable and appropriate by the Board. A Director takes office upon the adjournment of the
meeting or balloting at which he is elected or appointed and, absent death, ineligibility,
resignation, or removal, will hold office until his successor is elected or appointed. The Board of
Directors shall have the power and authority when it is deemed in the best interest of the
Association to change or alter the terms of office of directors on the Board or increase the
number of Directors to serve on the Board, which shall be done by Board resolution
notwithstanding, terms must remain staggered for the purpose of continuity.
Each Director, other than Directors appointed by Declarant, shall be a Member
(c)
and resident, or in the case of corporate or partnership ownership of a Lot, a duly authorized
agent or representative of the corporate or partnership Owner. The corporate, or partnership
Owner shall be designated as the Director in all correspondence or other documentation setting
forth the names of the Directors.
Section 4.2. Compensation. The Directors shall serve without compensation for such
service.
Section 4.3. Nominations to Board of Directors. Members may be nominated for
election to the Board of Directors in either of the following ways:
(a)
A Member who is not a Director and who desires to run for election to that
position shall be deemed to have been nominated for election upon his filing with the Board of
Directors a written petition of nomination; or
(b)
A Director who is eligible to be re-elected shall be deemed to have been
nominated for re-election to the position he holds by signifying his intention to seek reelection in
a writing addressed to the Board of Directors.
Section 4.4. Removal of Directors for Cause. If a Director breaches such Director's
duties hereunder or violates the terms of the Declaration, the Certificate, the Association Rules or
these Bylaws, such Director may be removed by Declarant unless Declarant no longer has the
right to appoint and remove Directors in accordance with Section 4.1 of these Bylaws, and then
by a majority vote of the remaining Directors after Declarant's right to appoint and remove
Directors has expired. No Director shall have any voting rights nor may such Director participate
in any meeting of the Board of Directors at any time that such Director is delinquent in the
payment of any Assessments or other charges owed to the Association.
Section 4.5. Vacancies on Board of Directors. At such time as Declarant's right to
appoint and remove Directors has expired or been terminated, if the office of any elected
Director shall become vacant by reason of death, resignation, retirement, disqualification,
removal from office or otherwise, the remaining Directors, at a special meeting duly called for
this purpose, shall choose a successor who shall fill the unexpired term of the directorship being
vacated. The foregoing shall not apply to any new Director positions established by the Board
pursuant to Section 4.1(a) above. If there is a deadlock in the voting for a successor by the
remaining Directors, the one Director with the longest continuous term on the Board shall select
the successor. At the expiration of the term of his position on the Board of Directors, the
6

WIIITEWING TRAILS HOMEOWNER'S ASSOCIATION, INC.BYLA

successor Director shall be re-elected or his successor shall be elected in accordance with these
Bylaws.
Section 4.6. Removal of Directors by Members. Subject to the right of Declarant to
nominate and appoint Directors as set forth in Section 4.1 of these Bylaws, an elected Director
may be removed, with or without cause, by a majority vote of the Members at any special
meeting of the Members of which notice has been properly given as provided in these Bylaws;
provided the same notice of this special meeting has also been given to the entire Board of
Directors, including the individual Director whose removal is to be considered at such special
meeting.
Section 4.7. Consent in Writing. Any action by the Board of Directors, including any
action involving a vote on a fine, damage assessment, appeal from a denial or architectural
control approval, or suspension of a right of a particular Member before the Member has an
opportunity to attend a meeting of the Board of Directors to present the Member's position on
the issue, may be taken without a meeting if all of the Directors shall unanimously consent in
writing to the action. Such written consent shall be filed in the Minute Book. Any action taken
by such written consent shall have the same force and effect as a unanimous vote of the
Directors.
ARTICLE V
MEETINGS OF DIRECTORS
Section 5.1. Regular Meetings. Regular meetings of the Board shall be held annually
or such other frequency as determined by the Board, without notice, at such place and hour as
may be fixed from time to time by resolution of the Board.
Section 5.2. Special Meetings. Special meetings of the Board shall be held when called
by the President of the Association, or by any two Directors, after not less than three (3) days'
notice to each Director.
Section 5.3. Quorum. A majority of the number of Directors shall constitute a quorum
for the transaction of business. Every act or decision done or made by a majority of the
Directors present at a duly held meeting at which a quorum is present shall be regarded as the act
of the Board of Directors.
Section 5.4. Telephone Meetings. Members of the Board or any committee of the
Association may participate in and hold meetings of the Board or committee by means of
conference telephone or similar communications equipment by means of which all persons
participating in the meeting can hear each other. Participation in such meeting constitutes
presence in person at the meeting, except where a person participates in the meeting for the
express purpose of objecting to the transaction of any business on the ground that the meeting is
not lawfully called or convened.

7

WHITEWING TRAILS HOMEOWNER'S ASSOCIATION, INC.BYLA

Section 5.6. Action without a Meeting. Any action required or pettnitted to be taken
by the Board at a meeting may be taken without a meeting, if all Directors individually or
collectively consent in writing to such action. The written consent must be filed with the
minutes of Board meetings. Action by written consent has the same force and effect as a
unanimous vote.
ARTICLE VI
POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE BOARD
Section 6.1. Powers. The Board shall have power and duty to undertake any of the
following actions, in addition to those actions to which the Association is authorized to take in
accordance with the Declaration:
(a)
adopt and publish the Association Rules, including regulations governing the use
of the Association Property and facilities, and the personal conduct of the Members and their
guests thereon, and to establish penalties for the infraction thereof;
(b)
to the maximum extent permitted under applicable law, suspend the voting rights
of a Member and right of a Member to use of the Association Property during any period in
which such Member shall be in default in the payment of any Assessment levied by the
Association, or after notice and hearing, for any period during which an infraction of the
Association Rules by such Member exists;
exercise for the Association all powers, duties and authority vested in or related to
(c)
the Association and not reserved to the membership by other provisions of the Association
Restrictions;
(d)
to enter into any contract or agreement with a municipal agency or utility
company to provide electric utility service to all or any portion of the Property;
(e)
declare the office of a member of the Board to be vacant in the event such
member shall be absent from three (3) consecutive regular meetings of the Board;

(I)

employ such employees as they deem necessary, and to prescribe their duties;

(g)

as more fully provided in the Declaration, to:

(1)
fix the amount of the Assessments against each Lot in advance of each
annual assessment period and any other assessments provided by the Declaration; and
(2)
foreclose the lien against any property for which Assessments are not paid
within thirty (30) days after due date or to bring an action at law against the Owner
personally obligated to pay the same;
(h)
issue, or to cause an appropriate officer to issue, upon demand by any person, a
certificate setting forth whether or not any Assessment has been paid and to levy a reasonable
charge for the issuance of these certificates (it being understood that if a certificate states that an
Assessment has been paid, such certificate shall be conclusive evidence of such payment);

8

WHITEWING TRAILS HOMEOWNER'S ASSOCIATION, INC.BYLA

procure and maintain adequate liability and hazard insurance on property owned
(i)
by the Association, which policies of insurance shall name the Declarant during the
Development Period, and any managing agent of the Association as "additional insured;"
(j)
cause all officers or employees having fiscal responsibilities to be bonded, as it
may deem appropriate; and
(k)

exercise such other and further powers or duties as provided in the Declaration or

by law.
Section 6.2. Duties. It shall be the duty of the Board to:
(a)
cause to be kept a complete record of all its acts and corporate affairs and to
present a statement thereof to the Members at the annual meeting of the Members, or at any
special meeting when such statement is requested in writing by Members who are entitled to cast
fifty-one percent (51%) of all outstanding votes; and
(b)
supervise all officers, agents and employees of the Association, and to see that
their duties are properly perfoimed.
ARTICLE VII
OFFICERS AND THEIR DUTIES
Section 7.1. Enumeration of Offices. The officers of the Association shall be a
President and a Vice-President, who shall at all times be members of the Board, a Secretary and
a Treasurer, and such other officers as the Board may from time to time create by resolution.
Section 7.2. Election of Officers. The election of officers shall take place at the first
meeting of the Board following each annual meeting of the Members.
Section 7.3. Term. The officers of the Association shall be elected annually by the
Board and each shall hold office for one (1) year unless he resigns sooner, or shall be removed or
otherwise disqualified to serve.
Section 7.4. Special Appointments. The Board may elect such other officers as the
affairs of the Association may require, each of whom shall hold office for such period, have such
authority, and perform such duties as the Board may, from time to time, deteiiiiine.
Section 7.5. Resignation and Removal. Any officer may be removed from office with
or without cause by the Board. Any officer may resign at any time by giving written notice to
the Board, the President, or the Secretary. Such resignation shall take effect on the date of
receipt of such notice or at any later time specified therein, and unless otherwise specified
therein, the acceptance of such resignation shall not be necessary to make it effective.
Section 7.6. Vacancies. A vacancy in any office may be filled through appointment by
the Board. The officer appointed to such vacancy shall serve for the remainder of the term of the
officer he replaces.

9

WHITEWINO TRAILS HOMEOWNER'S ASSOCIATION, INC. BYLA

Section 7.7. Multiple Offices. The offices of Secretary and Treasurer may be held by
the same person. No person shall simultaneously hold more than one of any of the other offices
except in the case of special offices created pursuant to Section 7.4.
Section 7.8. Duties. The duties of the officers are as follows:
(a)
President. The President, or any person designated by the Board, presides over
meetings of the Association; shall see that orders and resolutions of the Board are carried out;
shall sign all leases, mortgages, deeds and other written instruments such as promissory notes.
(b)
Vice President. The Vice President or Vice Presidents (including, without
limitation, Executive Vice Presidents and Senior Vice Presidents), if any, shall generally assist the
President and shall have such powers and perform such duties and services as shall from time to
time be prescribed or delegated by the President or the Board.
(c)
Secretary. The Secretary shall cause to be recorded the votes and cause to be kept
the minutes of all meetings and proceedings of the Board and of the Members; serve notice or
cause to he served notice of meetings of the Board and of the Members; cause to be kept
appropriate current records showing the Members of the Association together with their
addresses; and shall perfoi Lit such other duties as required by the Board.
(d)
Assistant Secretaries.
Each Assistant Secretary shall generally assist the
Secretary and shall have such powers and perform such duties and services as shall from time to
time be prescribed or delegated to him or her by the Secretary, the President, the Board or any
committee established by the Board.
Treasurer. The Treasurer shall oversee the receipts and deposits in appropriate
(e)
bank accounts all monies of the Association and shall oversee the disbursement of such funds as
directed by resolution of the Board; shall sign, at the direction of the Board, promissory notes of
the Association; cause to be kept proper books of account in appropriate form such that they
could be audited by a public accountant whenever ordered by the Board or the membership; and
shall cause to be prepared an annual budget and a statement of income and expenditures to be
presented to the membership at its regular meeting, and cause to be delivered a copy of each to
the Members.
ARTICLE VIII
OTHER COMMITTEES OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
The Board may, by resolution adopted by affirmative vote of a majority of the number of
Directors fixed by these Bylaws, designate two or more Directors (with such alternates, if any, as
may be deemed desirable) to constitute another committee or committees for any purpose;
provided, that any such other committee or committees shall have and may exercise only the
power of recommending action to the Board of Directors and of carrying out and implementing
any instructions or any policies, plans, programs and rules theretofore approved, authorized and
adopted by the Board. Notwithstanding the foregoing or anything to the contrary contained
herein, during the Development Period, the Architectural Reviewer for plans and specifications
for new homes to be constructed on vacant Lots or modifications to any home on a Lot is the

10

WHITEWING TRAILS HOMEOWNER'S ASSOCIATION, INc.B Y LA

Declarant or its delegates in accordance with Section 6.2 and Appendix B of the Declaration, as
amended from time to time.
ARTICLE IX
BOOKS AND RECORDS
The books, records and papers of the Association shall at all times, during reasonable
business hours, be subject to inspection by any Member. The Association Restrictions shall be
available for inspection by any Member at the principal office of the Association, where copies
may be purchased at reasonable cost.
ARTICLE X
ASSESSMENTS
As more fully provided in the Declaration, each Member is obligated to pay to the
Association Assessments which are secured by a continuing lien upon the property against which
the Assessments are made. Assessments shall be due and payable in accordance with the
Declaration.
ARTICLE XI
CORPORATE SEAL
The Association may, but shall have no obligation to, have a seal in a form adopted by
the Board.
ARTICLE XII
DECLARANT PROVISIONS
Section 12.1. Conflict. The provisions of this Article control over any provision to the
contrary elsewhere in these Bylaws.
Section 12.2. Board of Directors. As provided in Section 4.1 of these Bylaws,
Declarant is entitled to appoint and remove all members of the Board of Directors until the
Transition Date and thereafter, two members of the Board of Directors until the Declarant
no longer owns any portion of the Property. Until Declarant's right to appoint members of the
Board of Directors terminates, the Directors appointed by Declarant need not be Owners or
residents and may not be removed by the Owners. In addition, Declarant has the right to fill
vacancies in any directorship vacated by a Declarant appointee.
ARTICLE XIII
AMENDMENTS
Section 13.1. These Bylaws may be amended, (i) on or before the Declarant Turnover
Date, by Declarant without consent of joinder of the Members and by the Board by unilateral
vote or written consent of Declarant, and thereafter (ii) by a majority vote or written consent of a
majority of the Directors on the Board of Directors of the Association.

11

WIIITEWING TRAILS HOMEOWNER'S ASSOCIATION, 1NC.B YLA

Section 13.2. In the case of any conflict between the Certificate and these Bylaws, the
Certificate shall control; and in the case of any conflict between the Declaration and these
Bylaws, the Declaration shall control.
ARTICLE XIV
INDEMNIFICATION OF DIRECTORS AND OFFICERS
TILE ASSOCIATION SHALL INDEMNIFY EVERY DIRECTOR AND OFFICER OF
THE ASSOCIATION AGAINST, AND REIMBURSE AND ADVANCE TO EVERY
DIRECTOR AND OFFICER FOR, ALL LIABILITIES, COSTS AND EXPENSES'
INCURRED IN CONNECTION WITH SUCH DIRECTORSHIP OR OFFICE AND ANY
ACTIONS TAKEN OR OMITTED IN SUCH CAPACITY TO THE GREATEST EXTENT
PERMITTED UNDER THE TEXAS BUSINESS ORGANIZATION CODE AND ALL OTHER
APPLICABLE LAWS AT THE TIME OF SUCH INDEMNIFICATION, REIMBURSEMENT
OR ADVANCE PAYMENT; PROVIDED, HOWEVER, NO DIRECTOR OR OFFICER
SHALL BE INDEMNIFIED FOR: (A) A BREACH OF DUTY OF LOYALTY TO THE
ASSOCIATION OR ITS MEMBERS; (B) AN ACT OR OMISSION NOT IN GOOD FAITH
OR THAT INVOLVES INTENTIONAL MISCONDUCT OR A KNOWING VIOLATION OF
THE LAW; (C) A TRANSACTION FROM WHICH SUCH DIRECTOR OR OFFICER
RECEIVED AN IMPROPER BENEFIT, WHETHER OR NOT THE BENEFIT RESULTED
FROM AN ACTION TAKEN WITHIN THE SCOPE OF DIRECTORSHIP OR OFFICE; OR
(D) AN ACT OR OMISSION FOR WHICH THE LIABILITY OF SUCH DIRECTOR OR
OFFICER IS EXPRESSLY PROVIDED FOR BY STATUTE.
ARTICLE XV
MISCELLANEOUS
The fiscal year of the Association shall begin on the first day of January and end on the
31' day of December of every year, except that the first fiscal year shall begin on the date of
incorporation.
I, the undersigned, being the Secretary of Whitewing Trails Homeowner's Association,
Inc. does hereby certify that the foregoing are the Bylaws of said non-profit corporation, as
adopted by the Association's Board of Directors pursuant to a Unanimous Consent of Directors
in Lieu of Organizational Meeting of the Corporation dated to be effective as of 12th day of
August, 2020.

Brock Babb, Secretary
Filed and Recorded
Official Public Records
Stacey Kemp, County Clerk
Collin County, TEXAS
08/14/2020 03:45:20 PM
$486.00 BVINCENT
20200814001331880

12

WIIITEWING TRAII.S HOMEOWNER'S ASSOCIATION, lISC.BYTA
