Exhibit "B"
TO
DECLARATION OF COVENANTS,
CONDITIONS AND RESTRICTIONS FOR
WHITEWING TRAILS
DECLARANT REPRESENTATIONS & RESERVATIONS

GENERAL PROVISIONS.
B.1.1. Introduction. Declarant intends the Declaration to be perpetual and understands
that provisions pertaining to the initial development, construction, marketing, and control of the
Property will become obsolete when Declarant's role is complete. As a courtesy to future users
of the Declaration, who may be frustrated by then-obsolete terms, Declarant is compiling the
Declarant-related provisions in this Exhibit. Owners are put on notice that throughout the
Declaration and its exhibits the intention shall be that during the Declarant Control Period all
restrictions, rules, regulations, policies and any other provision governing the Association shall be
interpreted so as to be in the favor of the Declarant and the Builders. This is necessary to ensure
the continual and smooth buildout of the Subdivision. The Declarant's decision on any matter
shall be final and shall not be subject to the discretion, opinion, or interference of any Class A
Member.
B.1.2. General Reservation & Construction. Notwithstanding other provisions of the
Documents to the contrary, nothing contained therein may be construed to, nor may any
mortgagee, other Owner, or the Association, prevent or interfere with the rights contained in this
Exhibit which Declarant hereby reserves exclusively unto itself and its successors and assigns. In
case of conflict between this Exhibit and any other Document, this Exhibit controls. This Exhibit
may not be amended without the prior written consent of Declarant. To the extent any proposed
amendment is for the purpose of either amending the provisions of this Declaration or the
Association's Agreements pertaining to the use, operation, maintenance and/or supervision of any
facilities, structures, improvements, systems, Common Properties, private Streets or grounds that
are the responsibility of the Association, prior written consent of the City may be required. The
terms and provisions of this Exhibit must be construed liberally to give effect to Declarant's intent
to protect Declarant's interests in the Property.
B.1.3. Purpose of Development and Declarant Control Periods. This Exhibit gives
Declarant certain rights during the Development Period and the Declarant Control Period to ensure
a complete and orderly build out and sellout of the Property, which is ultimately for the benefit
and protection of Owners and mortgagees. Declarant may not use its control of the Association
and the Property for an advantage over the Owners by way of retention of any residual rights or
interests in the Association or through the creation of any contractual agreements which the
Association may not terminate without cause with ninety days' notice; Notwithstanding, certain
rights and protections for the Declarant and Builders is deemed reasonable and necessary to ensure
a complete and orderly buildout.

B.1.4. Definitions. As used in this Exhibit and elsewhere in the Documents, the
following words and phrases, when capitalized, have the following specified meanings:
"Builder" means a person or entity which purchases, or contracts to
purchase, a Lot from Declarant or from a Builder for the purpose of constructing a
residence for resale or under contract to an Owner other than Declarant. As used
in this Declaration, Builder does not refer to Declarant or to any home building or
home marketing company that is an affiliate of Declarant.
"Declarant Control Period" means that period of time during which
Declarant controls the operation of this Association. The duration of the Declarant
Control Period will be from the date this Declaration is recorded for a maximum
period not to exceed the earlier of: (i) the date on which Declarant no longer owns
any portion of the Property, or (ii) the date which is fifteen (15) years after
recordation of this Declaration in the Official Public Records of the County in
which the Association is located, or (iii) the date of recording in the Official Public
Records of the County in which the Association is located, of a notice signed by
the Declarant terminating the Declarant Control Period.

B.1.5. Builders. Declarant, through its affiliates, intends to construct residences on the
Lots in connection with the sale of the Lots. However, Declarant may, without notice, sell some
or all of the Lots to one or more Builders to improve the Lots with residences to be sold and
occupied.
Declarant reserves the
B.2. DECLARANT CONTROL PERIOD RESERVATIONS.
following powers, rights, and duties during the Declarant Control Period:
B.2.1. Officers & Directors. During the Declarant Control Period, the Board may consist
of three (3) persons. During the Declarant Control Period, Declarant may appoint, remove, and
replace any officer or director of the Association, none of whom need be Members or Owners, and
each of whom is indemnified by the Association as a "Leader;" provided, however, that on or
before the date which is the earlier of (i) one hundred twenty (120) days after Declarant has sold
seventy five percent (75%) of the Lots that may be developed within the Property, or (ii) ten (10)
years after the date of recordation of this Declaration, at least one-third (1/3) of the directors on
the Board shall be elected by non-Declarant Owners.
B.2.2. Weighted Votes. During the Declarant Control Period, the vote appurtenant to
each Lot owned by Declarant is weighted twenty-five (25) times that of the vote appurtenant to a
Lot owned by Class A Members. On termination of the Declarant Control Period and thereafter,
the vote appurtenant to Declarant's Lots is weighted uniformly with all other votes.
B.2.3. Budget Funding. During the Declarant Control Period only, Declarant may, in its
sole discretion, provide amounts in excess of the funds raised by the regular assessments in order
to maintain the Common Properties within reasonable standards excluding non-recurring expenses
which the Declarant shall have no obligation to fund. Any such advances made by Declarant
during the Declarant Period shall be a debt of the Association to the advancing party. The
Association shall, upon written request of the Declarant, cooperate fully in the repayment of sums
loaned to the Association by the Declarant. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Declarant, in its sole
Exhibit B — Page 2

discretion, may cause the Association to borrow any deficiency amount from a lending institution
at the then prevailing rate for such a loan. Declarant is not responsible for funding the Reserve
Fund and may, at its sole discretion, require the Association to use Reserve Funds when available
to pay operating expenses prior to the Declarant funding any deficiency.
B.2.4. Declarant Assessments. During the Declarant Control Period, any real property
owned by Declarant is not subject to Assessments by the Association.
B.2.5. Builder Obligations. During the Declarant Control Period only, Declarant has the
right but not the duty (1) to reduce or waive the Assessment obligation of a Builder, and (2) to
exempt a Builder from any or all liabilities for transfer-related fees charged by the Association or
its manager, provided the agreement is in writing.
B.2.6. Commencement of Assessments. During the initial development of the Property,
Declarant may elect to postpone the Association's initial levy of Regular Assessments until a
certain number of Lots are sold. During the Declarant Control Period, Declarant will determine
when the Association first levies Regular Assessments against the Lots.
B.2.7. Expenses of Declarant. Expenses related to the completion and marketing of the
Property will be paid by Declarant and are not expenses of the Association.
B.2.8. Budget Control. During the Declarant Control Period, the Declarant approves the
budget and controls the right to amend said budget without consent of joinder of the Members in
order to establish and produce a budget commensurate with the Association's expenses, needs and
expectations during the build out period.Owners' shall have no right of veto regarding
Amendment, Assessment increases or Special Assessments during the Declarant Control
Period.
B.2.9. Organizational Meeting. Within one hundred twenty (120) days after the end of
the Declarant Control Period, or sooner at the Declarant's option, Declarant will call an
organizational meeting of the Members of the Association for the purpose of electing, by vote of
the Owners, three directors to the Board. The transition from a Declarant to Homeowner Board
may also schedule to correspond with an Annual Meeting if the timing of the transition allows.
Written notice of the organizational meeting must be given to an Owner of each Lot at least ten
(10) days but not more than thirty (30) days before the meeting. For the organizational meeting,
Owners of ten percent (10%) of the Lots constitute a quorum. The directors elected at the
organizational meeting will serve staggered terms with the candidates obtaining the highest
number of votes serving the longer term and the remaining candidates serving the shorter term as
follows: Three-person Board one (1) Member shall serve a three-year term, one (1) Member shall
serve a two-year term, and one (1) Member shall serve a one-year term. At the first annual
meeting to be held by the Members after Declarant Control ends the Board shall have the right,
but not the obligation, to increase from a three to a five-person Board. The Board shall upon
majority vote have the right to increase the Board; five being the maximum number of Directors
allowed. A fi ve-person Board: Two (2) Members shall serve a three-year term, two (2) Members
shall serve a two-year term, and one (1) Member shall serve a one-year term.
At this transition meeting, the Declarant will transfer control of all utilities, if applicable,
related to the Common Properties provide information to the Association, if not already done so,
relating to the total costs to date related to the operation and maintenance of the Common
Properties.
Exhibit B — Page 3

Declarant reserves the following
B.3. DEVELOPMENT PERIOD RESERVATIONS.
easements and rights, exercisable at Declarant's sole discretion, at any time during the
Development Period:
B.3.1. Builder Limitations. Declarant may require its approval (which may not be
unreasonably withheld) of all documents and materials used by a Builder in connection with the
development and sale of Lots, including without limitation promotional materials; deed
restrictions; forms for deeds, Lot sales, and Lot closings. With Declarant's prior written approval,
a Builder may use a sales office or model in the Property to market residences, Lots, or other
products located outside the Property.
B.3.3. Architectural Control. During the Development Period, Declarant has the absolute
right to serve as the Architectural Reviewer pursuant to the Declaration. Declarant may from time
to time, but is not obligated to, delegate all or a portion of its reserved rights as Architectural
Reviewer under the Declaration and this Exhibit to (1) a committee comprised of architects,
engineers, or other persons who may or may not be Members of the Association chosen by the
Declarant. Any such delegation is at all times subject to the unilateral rights of Declarant (1) to
revoke such delegation at any time and reassume jurisdiction over the matters previously delegated
and (2) to veto any decision which Declarant in its sole discretion determines to he inappropriate
or inadvisable for any reason. Declarant also has the unilateral right to exercise architectural
control over vacant Lots in the Property. The Association, the Board of Directors, nor a
committee appointed by the Association or Board (no matter how the committee is named) may
involve itself with the approval of Builders new construction plans and/or construction of new
residences and related improvements on vacant Lots without the express written permission of the
Declarant.
B.3.4. Amendment. During the Development Period, Declarant may amend this
Declaration and the other Documents to include Bylaws, without consent of the Board, other
Owners or mortgagee, or Members for any purpose, including without limitation the following
purposes:
(i)

To create Lots, easements, and Common Properties within the Property.

(ii)

To subdivide, combine, or reconfigure Lots.

(iii)

To convert Lots into Common Properties and Common Properties back to Lots.

(iv)

To modify the construction and use restrictions of this Declaration.

(v)

To merge the Association with another property owner's association.

(vi)

To comply with the requirements of an underwriting lender.

(vii) To resolve conflicts, clarify ambiguities, and to correct misstatements, errors, or
omissions in the Documents.
(viii)
on the Lots.

To enable any reputable title insurance company to issue title insurance coverage

Exhibit B — Page 4

To enable an institutional or governmental lender to make or purchase mortgage
(ix)
loans on the Lots.
(x)

To change the name or entity of Declarant.

(xi)

To change the name of the addition in which the Property is located.

(xii)

To change the name of the Association.

(xiii)

For any other purpose, provided the amendment has no material adverse effect on
any right of any Owner.

B.3.5. Completion. During the Development Period, Declarant has (1) the right to
complete or make improvements indicated on the Plat; (2) the right to sell or lease any Lot owned
by Declarant; and (3) an easement and right to erect, construct, and maintain on and in the Common
Properties and Lots owned or leased by Declarant whatever Declarant determines to be necessary
or advisable in connection with the construction, completion, management, maintenance, leasing,
and marketing of the Property, including, without limitation, parking areas, temporary buildings,
temporary fencing, portable toilets, storage areas, dumpsters, trailers, and commercial vehicles of
every type.
B.3.6. Easement to Inspect & Right to Correct. During the Development Period,
Declarant reserves for itself the right, but not the duty, to inspect, monitor, test, redesign, correct,
and relocate any structure, improvement or condition that may exist on any portion of the Property,
including the Lots, and a perpetual nonexclusive easement of access throughout the Property to
the extent reasonably necessary to exercise this right. Declarant will promptly repair, at its sole
expense, any damage resulting from the exercise of this right. By way of illustration but not
limitation, relocation of a screening wall located on a Lot may be warranted by a change of
circumstance, imprecise siting of the original wall, or desire to comply more fully with public
codes and ordinances. This Section may not be construed to create a duty for Declarant or the
Association.
B.3.7. Promotion. During the Development Period, Declarant reserves for itself an
easement and right to place or install signs, banners, flags, display lighting, potted plants, exterior
decorative items, seasonal decorations, temporary window treatments, and seasonal landscaping
on the Property, including items and locations that are prohibited to other Owners and residents,
for purposes of promoting, identifying, and marketing the Property and/or Declarant's residences,
Lots, developments, or other products located outside the Property. Declarant reserves an
easement and right to maintain, relocate, replace, or remove the same from time to time within the
Property. Declarant also reserves the right to sponsor marketing events — such as open houses,
MLS tours, and broker's parties — at the Property to promote the sale of Lots. During the
Development Period, Declarant also reserves (1) the right to permit Builders to place signs and
promotional materials on the Property and (2) the right to exempt Builders from the sign restriction
in this Declaration. AT NO TIME AND IN NO EVENT SHALL OWNERS INTERFERE WITH
OR TAKE ANY ACTION THAT WOULD PROHIBIT THE DECLARANT AND BUILDERS
FROM PERFORMING THE SMOOTH AND ORDERLY CONSTRUCTION OF LOTS AND
THE ORDERLY BUILDOUT OF THE SUBDIVISION. OWNERS AND BOARD MEMBERS
MAY NOT ATTEMPT TO AMEND, MODIFY, OR RESCIND DAYS AND TIMES OF
Exhibit B - Page 5

SHOWINGS, CONTRACTOR ACTIVITY ASSOCIATED WITH CONSTRUCTION OF THE
DEVELOPMENT OR LOTS NOR SHALL THE BOARD OR ANY OWNER HAVE THE
RIGHT TO LIMIT OPEN HOUSES OR OTHER SUCH SPECIAL EVENTS PROMOTING
SALES. ANY SUCH ACTION IS SUBJECT TO SUIT BY THE DECLARANT OR A
BUILDER.
B.3.8. Offices. During the Development Period, Declarant reserves for itself the right to
use residences owned or leased by Declarant as models, storage areas, and offices for the
marketing, management, maintenance, customer service, construction, and leasing of the Property
and/or Declarant's developments or other products located outside the Property. Also, Declarant
reserves for itself the easement and right to make structural changes and alterations on and to Lots
and/or residences used by Declarant as models, storage areas, and offices, as may be necessary to
adapt them to the uses permitted herein.
B.3.9. Access. During the Development Period, Declarant has an easement and right of
ingress and egress in and through the Property for purposes of constructing, maintaining,
managing, and marketing the Property and the Property Subject to Annexation (as hereinafter
defined), and for discharging Declarant's obligations under this Declaration. Declarant also has the
right to provide a reasonable means of access for the home buying public through any existing or
future gate that restricts vehicular access to the Property in connection with the active marketing
of Lots and residences by Declarant or Builders, including the right to require that the gate be kept
open during certain hours and/or on certain days. This provision may not be construed as an
obligation or intent to gate the Property.
B.3.10. Utility Easements. During the Development Period, Declarant may grant pel nits,
licenses, and easements over, in, on, under, and through the Property for utilities, roads, and other
purposes necessary for the proper development and operation of the Property. Declarant reserves
the right to make changes in and additions to the easements on any Lot, as shown on the Plat, to
more efficiently or economically install utilities or other improvements. Utilities may include,
but are not limited to, water, sewer, trash removal, electricity, gas, telephone, television, cable,
internet service, and security. To exercise this right as to land that is not a Common Property or
not owned by Declarant, Declarant must have the prior written consent of the Owner.
B.3.11.Assessments. For the duration of the Development Period, any Lot owned by
Declarant is not subject to mandatory assessment by the Association until the date Declarant
transfers title to an Owner other than Declarant. If Declarant owns a Lot on the expiration or
termination of the Development Period, from that day forward Declarant is liable for Assessments
on each Lot owned by Declarant in the same manner as any Owner.
B.3.12.Land Transfers. During the Development Period, any transfer of an interest in the
Property to or from Declarant is not subject to any transfer-related provision in the Documents,
including without limitation on an obligation for transfer or Resale Certificate fees, and the
transfer-related provisions of this Declaration. The application of this provision includes without
limitation Declarant's Lot take-downs, Declarant's sale of Lots to Builders, and Declarant's sale of
Lots to homebuyers.

Exhibit B — Page 6

BA. COMMON PROPERTIES. Declarant will convey title to the Common Properties,
including any and all facilities, structures, improvements and systems of the Common Properties
owned by Declarant, to the Association by one or more deeds — with or without warranty and in
"As Is" condition, at the end of the Declarant Control Period. Any initial improvements within
or that are part of the Common Properties will be installed, constructed, or authorized by Declarant,
the cost of which is not a Common Expense of the Association. At the time of conveyance to the
Association, the Common Properties will be free to encumbrance except for the property taxes
accruing for the year of conveyance the terms of this Declaration and matters reflected on the Plat.
Declarant's conveyance of title is a ministerial task that does not require and is not subject to
acceptance by the Association or the Owners. The transfer of control of the Association at the
end of the Declarant Control Period is not a transfer of Common Properties requiring inspection,
evaluation, acceptance, or approval of improvements within or that are part of the Common
Properties by the Owners. Declarant is under no contractual or other obligation to provide
amenities of any kind or type.
B.5. WORKING CAPITAL FUND. Declarant may (but is not required to) establish a working
capital fund for the Association by requiring purchasers of Lots to make a one-time contribution
to this fund, subject to the following conditions:
a.
Subject to the foregoing a Lot's contribution should be collected from any Owner
at closing excluding Lot sales from Declarant to Builders. Declarant acknowledges that this
condition may create an inequity among the Owners, but deems it a necessary response to the
diversification of marketing and closing Lot sales.
b.
Contributions to the fund are not advance payments of Regular Assessments or
Special Assessments and are not refundable to the contributor by the Association or by Declarant.
This may not be construed to prevent a selling Owner from negotiating reimbursement of the
contribution from a purchaser. Working Capital Funds may be used for any expense or need of
the Association.
c.
Declarant will transfer the balance of the working capital fund to the Association
on or before termination of the Declarant Control Period. Declarant may not use the fund to
defray Declarant's personal expenses or construction costs however, Declarant may, if necessary,
utilize funds for the Association's operating needs in the event of a deficit in the Association's
operating budget.
B.6. SUCCESSOR DECLARANT.
Declarant may designate one or more Successor
Declarants' (herein so called) for specified designated purposes and/or for specified portions of the
Property, or for all purposes and all of the Property. To be effective, the designation must be in
writing, signed and acknowledged by Declarant and Successor Declarant, and recorded in the Real
Property Records of Collin County, Texas. Declarant (or Successor Declarant) may subject the
designation of Successor Declarant to limitations and reservations. Unless the designation of
Successor Declarant provides otherwise, a Successor Declarant has the rights of Declarant under
this Section and may designate further Successor Declarants.

Exhibit B — Page 7

B.7. Declarant's Right to Annex Adjacent Property. Declarant hereby reserves for itself and its
affiliates and/or any of their respective successors and assigns the right to annex any real property
in the vicinity of the Property (the "Property Subject to Annexation") into the scheme of this
Declaration as provided in this Declaration. Notwithstanding anything herein or otherwise to the
contrary, Declarant and/or such affiliates, successors and/or assigns, subject to annexation of same
into the real property, shall have the exclusive unilateral right, privilege and option (but never an
obligation), from time to time, for as long as Declarant owns any portion of the Property or
Property Subject to Annexation, to annex (a) all or any portion of the Property Subject to
Annexation owned by Declarant, and (b) subject to the provisions of this Declaration and the
jurisdiction of the Association, any additional property located adjacent to or in the immediate
vicinity of the Property (collectively, the "Annexed Land"), by filing in the Official Public Records
of Collin County, Texas, a Supplemental Declaration expressly annexing any such Annexed Land.
Such Supplemental Declaration shall not require the vote of the Owners, the Members of the
Association, or approval by the Board or other action of the Association or any other Person,
subject to the prior annexation of such Annexed Land into the real property. Any such annexation
shall be effective upon the filing of such Supplemental Declaration in the Official Public Records
of Collin County, Texas (with consent of Owner(s) of the Annexed Land, if not Declarant).
Declarant shall also have the unilateral right to transfer to any successor Declarant, Declarant's
right, privilege and option to annex Annexed Land, provided that such successor Declarant shall
be the developer of at least a portion of the Annexed Land and shall be expressly designated by
Declarant in writing to be the successor or assignee to all or any part of Declarant's rights
hereunder.
B.7.1. Procedure for Annexation. Any such annexation shall be accomplished by the
execution by Declarant, and the filing for record by Declarant (or the other Owner of the
property being added or annexed, to the extent such other Owner has received a written
assignment from Declarant of the right to annex hereunder) of a Supplemental Declaration
which must set out and provide for the following:
(i)

A legally sufficient description of the Annexed Land being added or annexed,
which Annexed Land must as a condition precedent to such annexation be included
in the real property;

(ii)

That the Annexed Land is being annexed in accordance with and subject to the
provisions of this Declaration, and that the Annexed Land being annexed shall be
developed, held, used, sold and conveyed in accordance with, and subject to, the
provisions of this Declaration as theretofore and thereafter amended; provided,
however, that if any Lots or portions thereof being so annexed are to be treated
differently than any of the other Lots (whether such difference is applicable to other
Lots included therein or to the Lots now subject to this Declaration), the
Supplemental Declaration should specify the details of such differential treatment
and a general statement of the rationale and reasons for the difference in treatment,
and if applicable, any other special or unique covenants, conditions, restrictions,
easements or other requirements as may be applicable to all or any of the Lots or
other portions of Annexed Land being annexed;

Exhibit B — Page 8

That all of the provisions of this Declaration, as amended, shall apply to the
Annexed Land being added or annexed with the same force and effect as if said
Annexed Land were originally included in this Declaration as part of the Initial
Property, with the total number of Lots increased accordingly;
(iv)

That an Assessment Lien is therein created and reserved in favor of the Association
to secure collection of the Assessments as provided in this Declaration, and as
provided for, authorized or contemplated in the Supplemental Declaration, and
setting forth the first year Maintenance Assessments and the amount of any other
then applicable Assessments (if any) for the Lots within the Annexed Land being
made subject to this Declaration; and

(v)

Such other provisions as the Declarant therein shall deem appropriate.

B.7.2. Amendment. The provisions of this B.7. or its sub-sections may not be amended
without the express written consent of Declarant (and Declarant's successors and assigns
in accordance with the terms hereof).
B.7.3. No Duty to Annex. Nothing herein contained shall establish any duty or
obligation on the part of the Declarant or any Member to annex any property to this
Declaration and no Owner of the property excluded from this Declaration shall have any
right to have such property annexed thereto.
B.7.4. Effect of Annexation on Class B Membership. In determining the number of Lots
owned by the Declarant for the purpose of Class B Membership status the total number of
Lots covered by this Declaration and located in such Declarant's portion of the Property,
including all Lots acquired by the Declarant and annexed thereto, shall be considered. If
Class B Membership has previously lapsed but annexation of additional property restores
the ratio of Lots owned by the Declarant to the number required by Class B Membership,
such Class B Membership shall be reinstated until it expires pursuant to the telins of the
Declaration.

[End of Exhibit BJ

Exhibit B — Page 9

