Exhibit D
TO
DECLARATION OF COVENANTS,
CONDITIONS AND RESTRICTIONS FOR
WHITEWING TRAILS
CONSENT OF DIRECTORS IN LIEU OF
ORGANIZATIONAL MEETING
OF
WHITEWING TRAILS HOMEOWNER'S ASSOCIATION, INC.
The undersigned, being all of the members of the Board of Directors of Whitewing Trails
Homeowner's Association, Inc., a Texas non-profit corporation (hereinafter referred to as the
"Association"), do hereby consent, pursuant to the Texas Business Organization Code, to the
adoption of the following resolutions:
I. DIRECTORS
RESOLVED, that each of the undersigned, being all of the directors of the
Association, as named in its Certificate of Foiination filed with the Secretary of
State of the State of Texas on June 13, 2019, does hereby accept appointment to
such office and does hereby agree to serve as a director of the Association until
the first annual meeting of the members and until said director's successor or
successors have been duly elected and qualified or until his or her earlier death,
resignation, retirement, disqualification or removal from office.
2. BYLAWS
RESOLVED, that the form of Bylaws filed in conjunction with the
Covenants, Conditions and Restrictions of the Association were approved and
adopted as the Bylaws of the Association, and the Secretary of the Association is
instructed to insert the original thereof in the minute book of the Association.
3. OFFICERS
RESOLVED, that each of the following-named persons be and they
hereby are elected as officers of the Association for the office or offices set forth
below opposite his or her name, and to hold any such office to which elected until
the first annual meeting of the Board of Directors of the Association and until his
or her successor should be chosen and qualified in his or her stead, or until his or
her earlier death, resignation, retirement, disqualification or removal from office:
Mehrdad Moayedi

-

President

Brock Babb

-

Vice President

Dustin Warren

-

Secretary/Treasurer

4. REGISTERED OFFICE; REGISTERED AGENT

RESOLVED, that the registered office of the Association be established
and maintained at c/o Essex Association Management, L.P., 1512 Crescent Drive,
Suite 112, Carrollton, Texas 75006, and that Essex Association Management,
L.P., is hereby appointed as registered agent of the corporation in said office.
5. BOOKS AND RECORDS
RESOLVED, that the Secretary of the Association be and hereby is
authorized and directed to procure all necessary books and records of the
Association. The Board hereby adopts the Records Production and Copying
Policy and authorizes the secretary to execute same and cause such policy to be
recorded in the applicable county public records.
6. ORGANIZATIONAL EXPENSES
RESOLVED, that the President of the Association or other officer be and
hereby is authorized and directed to pay all fees, expenses and costs incident to or
necessary for the incorporation and organization of the Association and to
reimburse any person who may have paid any of such fees, expenses and costs.
7. CORPORATE SEAL
RESOLVED, that a corporate seal is not adopted at this time and that no
impression of a corporate seal is required on any Association document.
8. DEPOSITORY RESOLUTIONS
RESOLVED, that an account shall be established in the name of the
Association with a financial institution to be deteimined by the Board (the
"Bank"), under the rules and regulations as prescribed by said Bank wherein may
be deposited any of the funds of this Association, whether represented by cash,
checks, notes or other evidences of debt, and from which deposit withdrawals are
hereby authorized in the name of the Association by any one of the following
persons:
Mehrdad Moayedi, President
Brock Babb, Vice President
Dustin Warren, Secretary/Treasurer
Ron Corcoran, Essex Association Management, L.P.

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the Bank is hereby authorized to
honor any and all withdrawal items against the Association's funds, although
payable to the officer or agent signing or countersigning the same and whether
presented for encashment or for credit to the personal account of such officer or
005782\00089\2680794.1

2
WHITEWING TRAILS HOMEOWNER'S ASSOCIATION, INC,

agent or any other person, and said Bank need make no inquiry concerning such
items and/or the disposition of the money, items, or credit given therefor.
9. POLICIES
The Board has adopted and shall record in the applicable county public records the following
Policies:
•

Alternative Payment Schedule

•

Records Production, Copying, and Retention Policy

•

Collections Policy

•

Notice and Hearing; Schedule of Fines

•

Generator Policy

•

E-mail Registration Policy

[THE REMAINDER OF THIS PAGE IS INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK]

00578210008912680794.1

3
WHITEWING TRAII,S HOMEOWNER'S ASSOCIATION, INC.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned have executed this instrument as of and
effective the 12th day of August, 2020.

Mehrdad Moayedi, Director

Dustin Warren, Director

Brock Babb, Director

005782\00089\2680794.1

4
WHITEWING TRAILS HOMEOWNER'S ASSOCIATION, INC.

EXHIBIT 0-1
TO ORGANIZATIONAL CONSENT
Form 202
Secretary of State
P.O. Box 13697
Austin, TX 78711-3697
FAX: 512/463-5709

Filed in the Office of the
Secretary of State of Texas
Filing #: 803343248 06/13/2019
Document #: 895536560004
Image Generated Electronically
for Web Filing

Certificate of Formation
Nonprofit Corporation

Filing Fee: $25

Article 1 - Corporate Name
The filing entity formed is a nonprofit corporation. The name of the entity is :
Whitewino Trails Homeowner's Association, Inc.
Article 2 — Registered Agent and Registered Office
EPA. The initial registered agent is an organization (cannot be corporation named above) by the name of:
1Essex Association Management, L.P.
OR

EB. The initial registered agent is an individual resident of the state whose name is set forth below:
C. The business address of the registered agent and the registered office address is:
Street Address:
1512 Crescent Drive, Suite 112 Carrollton TX 75006
Consent of Registered Agent
FA. A copy of the consent of registered agent is attached.
OR
FB. The consent of the registered agent is maintained by the entity.
Article 3 - Management

fi A. Management of the affairs of the corporation is to be vested solely in the members of the corporation.
OR
F B. Management of the affairs of the corporation is to be vested in its board of directors. The number of directors,
which must be a minimum of three, that constitutes the initial board of directors and the names and addresses of the
persons who are to serve as directors until the first annual meeting or until their successors are elected and qualified
are set forth below.
Director 1: Mehrdad

Moayedi

ftitle: Director

Address: 1512 Crescent Drive, Suite 112
Director 2: Dustin

Warren

'Title: Director

Address: 1512 Crescent Drive, Suite 112
Director 3: Brock

Carrollton TX, USA 75006

Carrollton TX, USA 75006

Babb

Title: Director

Address: 1512 Crescent Drive, Suite 112

Carrollton TX, USA 75006

Article 4 - Organization Structure
fi A. The corporation will have members.
or
F B. The corporation will not have members.

r•

Article 5 - Purpose

The corporation is organized for the following purpose or purposes:
;Homeowner's Association
Supplemental Provisions / Information

:(The attached addendum, if any, is incorporated herein by reference.]

Effectiveness of Filing
147A. This document becomes effective when the document is filed by the secretary of state.
OR
. FB. This document becomes effective at a later date, which is not more than ninety (90) days from the date of its
isigning. The delayed effective date is:
Organizer
The name and address of the organizer are set forth below.

Mehrdad Moayedi

1800 Valley View Lane, Suite 300, Farmers Branch, TX 75234
Execution

The undersigned affirms that the person designated as registered agent has consented to the appointment. The
undersigned signs this document subject to the penalties imposed by law for the submission of a materially false or
fraudulent instrument and certifies under penalty of perjury that the undersigned is authorized under the provisions of
law governing the entity to execute the filing instrument.

Mehrdad Moayedi
Signature of organizer.
FILING OFFICE COPY
