Exhibit C
TO
DECLARATION OF COVENANTS,
CONDITIONS AND RESTRICTIONS FOR
WHITEWING TRAILS

Design Guidelines
Restrictions apply to all Single Family Detached and Zero Lot Line Residences.
The ACC has sole discretion and authority as to any modification or addition
regardless of the structure type. Failure to abide by the conditions set forth in
this Declaration and/or the conditional approval of the ACC when such an
approval is issued is grounds for possible cease construction, removal or
replacement of the non-conforming object or structure, and the maximum fine
allowed under this Declaration.
PART ONE: LANDSCAPING, FENCES AND EXTERIOR ELEMENTS
SECTION 1.1 LANDSCAPING:
Upon completion of each residential unit, each residence must comply with the landscaping
requirements of any applicable City of Princeton ordinances, specifically Ordinance No. 2001-0103 and 2003-02-18-02 and all Association Rules. The provisions of this section are deemed to be
the minimum standards and shall apply to all new construction. Builders and Owners are hereby
placed on notice that the City of Princeton has specific requirements for landscaping which include
the need for permits, submission of detailed landscape plans, certain tree removal and tree
protection restrictions as well as a pre-approved list of allowed trees and shrubs. Whitewing
Trails has included much of the information from the City's ordinances below; Notwithstanding,
the list and restrictions are not all inclusive therefore, and it is the Builders and/or Owners
responsibility to ensure compliance with all City of Princeton landscape restrictions and
ordinances prior to commencing installation. Should there be any discrepancy between the
guidelines listed below and any City of Princeton ordinances, the higher standard shall
always prevail.
The following landscape elements shall be installed prior to occupancy of the residence:
1.1.1

Sod: Each residence shall have full sod installed for the entire front, sides, and rear
yard and a minimum of ten (10) feet back from the front wall face for each side
yard, or to the side yard fence, whichever is greater. Non-living landscape
materials such as wood chips and gravel may only be used under trees, shrubs, and
other plants and only after obtaining the prior written consent of the Reviewer.
Sod shall be clean and reasonably free of weeds and noxious pests and insects.

1.1.1(a) Ground covers may not be used in lieu of grass or sod without the prior written
consent of the Reviewer.

1.1.2

Trees: Ornamental trees shall have a minimum spread of crown of greater than
fifteen (15) feet at maturity. Ornamental trees having a minimum mature crown
of less than fifteen (15) feet may be substituted by grouping the same as to create
the equivalent of fifteen (15) feet crown width. Canopy trees shall have a
minimum spread of twenty-five (25) feet at maturity. Larger trees shall be a
minimum of three (3) inches in caliper as measured twenty-four (24) inches above
the ground and seven (7) feet in height at time of planting. Small trees shall be a
minimum of one (1) inch in caliper as measured twenty-four (24) inches above
ground and five feet in height at time of planting. A minimum of two (2) canopy
trees with a minimum caliper of 3" as instructed above shall be required for most
front yards. At least one (1) tree shall be located in the back yard on all lots. For
smaller lots where two (2) trees in the front is not feasible, at least one (1) tree in
the front and one (1) tree in the rear yard is required. For the avoidance of doubt,
only one (1) tree shall be required to be located in the front of fifty-foot (50') Lots.
Compliance with these landscaping requirements shall not be such as to cause
visibility obstructions and/or blind corners at intersections. Landscaping within
areas where visibility could potentially be obstructed shall be planted to ensure the
line of sight and/or cross-visibility areas remain unobstructed. Trees in these areas
must be kept trimmed in a manner that no limbs or foliage extend into or block the
visibility areas. Each Owner shall be responsible for maintenance and preservation
of trees located on their property and shall promptly replace dead trees within thirty
(30) days of loss occurrences when favorable planting weather exists and ninety
(90) days in off-seasons or when unfavorable planting weather exists. Tree species
shall comply with the City of Princeton Zoning Ordinance; some of the allowed
trees have been provided in Attachment 1.1.2-A below.

1.1.3

Shrubbery, Hedges, and Planting Beds: Each residence shall have a minimum of
ten (10) one-gallon shrubs and one (1) fifteen-gallon ornamental shrub planted in a
mulched planting bed; the planting bed shall have quality edging materials to
separate the sod and bed mulch areas. Shrubs not of the dwarf variety shall be a
minimum of two (2) feet in height when measured immediately after planting.
Hedges, where installed for buffering purposes required by the City of Princeton,
shall be planted and maintained so as to form a continuous. unbroken, solid visual
screen which will be three feet (3') in height within two years after planting. Hedges
within the front yard shall not exceed three feet (3') in height. The Owner shall be
responsible for the maintenance a preservation of the shrubs and planting bed, and
shall promptly replace dead shrubs and hedges within thirty (30) days of loss
occurrences when favorable planting weather exists and ninety (90) days in offseasons or when unfavorable planting weather exists. Color in beds to bring
beauty and aesthetic appeal is encouraged. A variety of approved shrubs allowed
by the City of Princeton has been provided in Attachment 1.1.3-B below.

Exhibit C — Page 2

1.1.4

Landscaping, except for sod and low ground cover (if approved) shall not be
located closer than three (3) feet from the edge of any driveway or parking space.

SECTION 1.2 FENCES:
Permits from City of Princeton are required prior to any installation of a fence and prior to any
alteration, addition, or change to an existing fence in any length greater than twenty (20) feet.
Any repair or maintenance must be done with similar materials unless replacing the entire fence
and prior written approval of the Reviewer shall be required for any installation, alteration,
addition, or change including, but not limited to, staining or re-staining of fence. Inspection from
the City of Princeton is required after construction of a fence. Approval for minor repairs such as
replacing broken pickets, etc., or up righting a leaning or fallen panel is not required. No fence
shall be constructed within any drainage or other easement in the City limits unless the property
Owner submits a certification under seal from a licensed engineer that such fence shall not interfere
with or impair the natural flow of water across the drainage easement. Regardless of whether the
City and the Association issues a permit or approval, the Owner shall not be absolved of
responsibility should the fence interfere with or impair the natural flow of water across a drainage
easement. The ACC shall have the exclusive right to require a five-foot (5') setback from all
fences for any structure, temporary or permanent, installed on a Lot other than the main residence.
Additional fence restrictions and requirements exist in the body of this Declaration and apply to
all fencing as the language and rules are set forth or may be applied by the Reviewer. Without the
proper permit from the city and written consent of the Reviewer, all wood fences shall not exceed
six feet (6') in height.
1.2.1

Major thoroughfares and Corner Lots: All fencing on corner lots and backing up to
streets and major thoroughfares will be considered major thoroughfare fencing.
Fencing, which shall be board on board, six feet (6') in height with a cap, and prestained Spruce Fence or better, with steel posts. All posts shall be schedule 40
steel posts and be buried at least two feet (2') in the ground with concrete support.
Wood posts are not allowed. Posts shall be mounted on the inside and step up's
and step downs shall be allowed to adjust for grade when necessary. Chain link,
vinyl, and barbed wire fencing is prohibited. Steel posts must be buried at least two
feet in the ground with concrete support. NO front yard fencing is allowed and no
electrical fencing is allowed. Setback restrictions as to how closely the fence can
extend to the front of the residence exists and may vary depending upon the
placement of the Lot and other factors.
All fencing facing major thoroughfares shall be stained with one approved stain
color only to ensure unifoimity in color throughout for all perimeter fencing. From
the below pre-approved stain colors, Sable Brown shall be the standard stain color
for perimeter fencing. All other wood fencing may use either of the stain colors
listed below. No other stain color shall be used without the written consent of the
Reviewer. Painting of fences is not allowed.
Manufacturer:
Color:

Sherwin Williams
Banyan Brown — or similar color acceptable to the
Exhibit C — Page 3

Reviewer.
Manufacturer:
Color:

Standard Paint
Sable Brown — or similar color acceptable to the
Reviewer.

1.2.2

Standard Side and Rear Yard Fences — Interior Lots: For all interior lots, fences
shall not exceed six feet (6') max fence height, pre-stained Spruce or better, with
steel posts, and top rail. All fences to have step ups and step downs to adjust for
grade. All portions of the fence that are viewable from the street shall be stained
with one of the colors specified above. Other stain colors are not allowed without
the prior written approval of the Reviewer.

1.2.3

Greenbelt Areas, Open Spaces and Parks: Lots adjacent to a Greenbelt area, Open
Spaces and/or a Park shall have black finished, forty-eight inch (48") high wrought
iron fences for the full width of the Lot line abutting said space. The remainder of
any side not facing a greenbelt, open space or park may be wood board-on-board
or board-to-board, depending upon the location of the Lot. The type of wood
fencing is contingent upon the rules in 1.2.1 and 1.2.2 above. All wrought iron
fences shall be consistent; no variation of design is generally permitted. Fence
areas shall remain unobstructed by screening or other materials unless specifically
approved in writing by the Reviewer prior to installation.

SECTION 1.3 MAIL BOXES:
1.3.1

Standard Mail Boxes: All Lots shall utilize cluster mailboxes in accordance with
the terms of the Declaration. Final product used as well as location of the pad and
cluster mailboxes are at the discretion of the Declarant, the Architectural Control
Committee, and United States Postal Service.

SECTION 1.4 FLAGS AND FLAGPOLES
1.4.1

The only flags which may be displayed are: (i) the flag of the United States of
America; (ii) the flag of the State of Texas; and (iii) an official or replica flag of
any branch of the United States armed forces. No other types of flags, pennants,
banners, kits or similar types of displays are permitted on a Lot if the display is
visible from a street or Common Properties.

1.4.2

The flag of the United States must be displayed in accordance with 4 U.S.C.
Sections 5-10.

1.4.3

The flag of the State of Texas must be displayed in accordance with Chapter 3100
of the Texas Government Code.

1.4.4

Any freestanding flagpole, or flagpole attached to a residence, shall be constructed
of permanent, long-lasting materials. The materials used for the flagpole shall be
harmonious with the residence, and must have a silver finish with a gold or silver
Exhibit C — Page 4

ball at the top. The flagpole must not exceed three (3) inches in diameter.
1.4.5

The display of a flag, or the location and construction of the supporting flagpole,
shall comply with applicable zoning ordinances, easements, and setbacks of record.

1.4.6

A displayed flag, and the flagpole on which it is flown, shall be maintained in good
condition at all times. Any flag that is deteriorated must be replaced or removed.
Any flagpole that is structurally unsafe or deteriorated shall be repaired, replaced,
or removed.

1.4.7

Only one flagpole will be allowed per Lot. A flagpole can either be securely
attached to the face of the residence (no other structure) or be a freestanding
flagpole. A flagpole attached to the residence may not exceed 4 feet in length. A
freestanding flagpole may not exceed 20 feet in height. Any freestanding flagpole
must be located in either the front yard or backyard of a Lot, and there must be a
distance of at least 5 feet between the flagpole and the property line.

1.4.8

Any flag flown or displayed on a freestanding flagpole may be no smaller than 3'x5'
and no larger than 4'x6'.

1.4.9

Any flag flown or displayed on a flagpole attached to the residence may be no larger
than 3'x5'.

1.4.10 Any freestanding flagpole must be equipped to minimize halyard noise. The
preferred method is through the use of an internal halyard system. Alternatively,
swivel snap hooks must he covered or "Quiet Halyard" Flag snaps installed.
Neighbor complaints of noisy halyards are a basis to have flagpole removed until
Owner resolves the noise complaint.
1.4.11 The illumination of a flag is allowed so long as it does not create a disturbance to
other residents in the Subdivision. Solar powered, pole mounted light fixtures are
preferred as opposed to ground mounted light fixtures. Compliance with all
municipal requirements for electrical ground mounted installations must be
certified by Owner. Flag illumination may not shine into another residence.
Neighbor complaints regarding flag illumination are a basis to prohibit further
illumination until Owner resolves complaint.
1.4.12 Flagpoles shall not be installed in Common Properties or any property maintained
by the Association.
1 .4.13 All freestanding flagpole installations must receive prior written approval from the
Reviewer.

Exhibit C — Page 5

SECTION 1.5 RAIN BARRELS OR RAINWATER HARVESTING SYTEMS
1.5.1

Rain barrels or rain water harvesting systems and related system components
(collectively, "Rain Barrels") may only be installed after receiving the written
approval of the Reviewer.

1.5.2

Rain Barrels may not be installed upon or within Common Properties.

1.5.3

Under no circumstances shall Rain Barrels be installed or located in or on any area
within a Lot that is in-between the front of the property Owner's residence and an
adjoining or adjacent street.

1.5.4

The rain barrel must be of color that is consistent with the color scheme of the
property Owner's residence and may not contain or display any language or other
content that is not typically displayed on such Rain Barrels as manufactured.

1.5.5

Rain Barrels may be located in the side-yard or back-yard of an Owner's Lot so
long as these may not be seen from a street, another Lot or any Common Properties.

1.5.6

In the event the installation of Rain Barrels in the side-yard or back-yard of an
Owner's property in compliance with paragraph 1.5.5 above is impossible, the
Reviewing Body may impose limitations or further requirements regarding the size,
number and screening of Rain Barrels with the objective of screening the Rain
Barrels from public view to the greatest extent possible. The Owner must have
sufficient area on their Lot to accommodate the Rain Barrels.

1.5.7

Rain Barrels must be properly maintained at all times or removed by the Owner.

1.5.8

Rain Barrels must be enclosed or covered.

1.5.9

Rain Barrels which are not properly maintained become unsightly or could serve as
a breeding pool for mosquitoes must be removed by the Owner from the Lot.

SECTION 1.6 RELIGIOUS DISPLAYS
1.6.1

An Owner may display or affix on the entry to the Owner's or occupant's residence
one or more religious items, the display of which is motivated by the Owner's or
resident's sincere religious belief.

1.6.2

If displaying or affixing of a religious item on the entry to the Owner's or
occupant's residence violates any of the following covenants, The Association may
remove the item displayed:
(1)
(2)
(3)

threatens the public health or safety;
violates a law;
contains language, graphics, or any display that is patently offensive to a
passerby;
Exhibit C — Page 6

(4)
(5)

1.6.3

is in a location other than the entry door or door frame or extends past the
outer edge of the door frame of the Owner's or occupant's residence; or
individually or in combination with each other religious item displayed or
affixed on the entry door or door frame has a total size of greater than 25
square inches

No Owner or resident is authorized to use a material or color for an entry door or
door frame of the Owner's or occupant's residence or make an alteration to the
entry door or door frame that is not authorized by the Association, Declaration or
otherwise expressly approved by the Architectural Control Committee.

PART TWO: RESIDENCES
SECTION 2.1 ROOFS
2.1.1

Roof Pitch: Roof Pitch for residences is to match the house roof; Notwithstanding,
the minimum roof pitch allowed shall have minimum 6-in-12 slope or must comply
with the minimum roof pitch as may be allowed by the applicable City Zoning
Ordinance. Higher pitches such as an 8-in-12 pitch may be used to meet certain
City of Princeton Design Elements required in Whitewing Trails. Lower slopes
may ONLY be allowed for certain areas and building styles and is subject to the
prior written approval of the Declarant or the Reviewer and must meet any City of
Princeton ordinances.

2.1.2

Roofing Materials: Roofing materials shall be minimum 20-year architectural grade
asphalt composition shingles with a minimum weight of 220 pounds per square
(100 square feet). Tile and masonry roofing materials may be allowed however,
use of these roofing materials are not pre-approved and will require the prior written
pet taission of the Reviewer prior to installation and use. Approved shingle colors
are weathered brown, light to medium brown tones, and grays. Any other color
must receive the prior written approval of the Reviewer prior to installation and
use. Failure to obtain approval for use of any roofing material or color other than
specified above shall be an automatic fine for non-compliance for Builders and / or
Owners of not less than $500.00 and other conditions of non-compliance may also
apply such as, but not limited to, removal of the non-complying roofing materials

2.1.3

Dormers & Above Roof Chimneys: Dormers and Chimney Chases, above roof
structure and roofing materials, must meet the City of Princeton's Building and
Zoning Ordinances for Whitewing Trails. All Fireplace flues shall be enclosed
and finished; exposed pre-fabricated metal flue piping is prohibited without prior
written consent of the Reviewer. Flues used for gas fireplaces and other similar
equipment if exposed, shall be installed in such a manner so as not to be visible
from the front of the residence or street. Should installation of exposed flues be
required elsewhere, prior written consent of the Reviewer shall be required.

Exhibit C — Page 7

2.1.4

Roof-mounted and wall-mounted mechanical equipment is prohibited on single
family detached residential structures and zero lot line structures.

SECTION 2.2 CERTAIN ROOFING MATERIALS
2.2.1

Roofing shingles covered by this Section are exclusively those designed primarily
to be more wind and hail resistant than those provided by customary composite
shingles.

2.2.2

Roofing Shingles allowed under this Section shall:

(1)

(2)
(3)

resemble the shingles used or otherwise authorized for use in the
Subdivision and/or Property. Solar shingles shall be subject to placement
restrictions as well as other restrictions governing the installation of solar
shingles designed to generate solar energy;
be more durable than and are of equal or superior quality to the shingles
used or otherwise authorized for use in the Subdivision and/or Property.
match the aesthetics of the property surrounding the property of the Owner
requesting permission to install the Roofing Shingles.

2.2.3

The Owner requesting permission to install the Roofing Shingles will be solely
responsible for accrediting, certifying and demonstrating to the Reviewer that the
proposed installation is in full compliance with paragraphs a and b above.

2.2.4

Roofing Shingles shall be installed after receiving the written approval of the
Reviewer.

2.2.5

Owners are hereby placed on notice that the installation of Roofing Materials may
void or adversely affect other warranties.

SECTION 2.3 SOLAR PANELS
2.3.1

Solar energy devices, including any related equipment or system components
(collectively, "Solar Panels") may only be installed after receiving the written
approval of the Architectural Control Committee.

2.3.2

Solar Panels may not be installed upon or within Common Properties or any area
which is maintained by the Association.

2.3.3

Solar Panels may only be installed on designated locations on the roof of a
residence, on any structure allowed under any Association dedicatory instrument,
or within any fenced rear-yard or fenced-in patio of the Owner's property, but only
as allowed by the Reviewer. Solar Panels may not be installed on the front
elevation of the residence.

Exhibit C — Page 8

2.3.4

If located on the roof of a residence, Solar Panels shall:
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)

not extend higher than or beyond the roofline;
conform to the slope of the roof;
have a top edge that is parallel to the roofline; and
have a frame, support bracket, or wiring that is black or painted to match
the color of the roof tiles or shingles of the roof Piping must be painted to
match the surface to which it is attached, i.e. the soffit and wall. Panels
must blend with the color of the roof to the greatest extent possible.

2.3.5

If located in the fenced rear-yard or patio, Solar Panels shall not be taller than the
fence line or visible from a Lot, Common Properties or street.

2.3.6

The Reviewer may deny a request for the installation of Solar Panels if it determines
that the placement of the Solar Panels, as proposed by the property Owner, will
create an interference with the use and enjoyment of land of neighboring Owners.

2.3.7

Owners are hereby placed on notice that the installation of Solar Panels may void
or adversely affect roof warranties. Any installation of Solar Panels which voids
material warranties is not permitted and will be cause for the Solar Panels to be
removed by the Owner.

2.3.8

Solar Panels must be properly maintained at all times or removed by the Owner.

2.3.9

Solar Panels which become non-functioning or inoperable must be removed by the
Owner of the property.

SECTION 2.4 EXTERIOR WALLS
2.4.1

Exterior Wall Materials shall be a minimum of eighty percent (80%) mason overall.
The following masonry materials are the ONLY approved materials which may be
used to meet the minimum eighty percent (80%) requirement: Brick, Clay Brick,
Austin Stone, Native Stone, Manufactured Concrete Stone or Brick. A mixture of
two types of mason from the approved list above is encouraged and may be used to
comply with some City of Princeton's Design Elements as required in Ordinance
No. 2009-07-28 (as modified and amended by the City of Princeton Ordinance No.
2019-06-24-01). Cement Fiber Board, Siding, and other similar materials are not
an approved masonry material for meeting the eighty percent (80%) overall
masonry requirement. Masonry percentages exclude doors, windows, garage
doors, the roof, and exterior wall areas built on top of a roof and other similar
openings.

Exhibit C — Page 9

2.4.1.1 Side and Rear Wall requirements with regard to 2-story residences must
meet the City of Princeton's minimum requirements with regard to masonry
use and placement.
2.4.1.2 Chimneys: Chimney wall structures that are a direct extension of an exterior
wall shall match the requirement of said wall.

SECTION 2.5

WINDOWS

2.5.1 The use of Pop-Out's, Bay Windows, Recessed Windows, and Windowsills are
strongly encouraged and in some cases such as residences facing a street or any open space are
mandatory per the City of Princeton's Ordinance No. 2009-07-28 (as modified and amended by
the City of Princeton Ordinance No. 2019-06-24-01). The use of the windows listed above may
also serve to meet certain Design Elements required for Whitewing Trails by the City of Princeton.
Unless written consent is received allowing otherwise, windows shall be constructed of vinyl,
divided light on all front windows, divided light on all windows backing siding collectors, parks
or open spaces. Reflective glass is prohibited. Windows on zero lot line side of residences is
prohibited.
SECTION 2.6 GARAGE
2.6.1 No front entry garages (excluding J-Swing garages) on a single family or zero lot
line residence shall extend forward from a residence's livable space or in front of a covered front
porch by more than 10-feet. The garage shall conform in design and materials with the main
structure and may not be used as a living quarter at any time or for the purpose of conducting
business of any kind. The following garage doors shall be allowed upon written consent of the
Reviewer (i) Metal garage doors, (ii) metal with a wood overlay, and (iii) wood garage doors.
Color and style of the garage door must complement the main residence. The prior written consent
of the Reviewer shall be required prior to installation, modification, or change of any garage door.
Light to Medium color garage doors are preferred. The Reviewer reserves the right to require
accents such as trims, decorative hardware, windows, or lighting at their sole discretion.
SECTION 2.7 ADDRESS BLOCKS
2.7.1 All address blocks shall be cast stone.
SECTION 2.8ANTI-REPETITION RULES.
2.8.1

No front house elevation on a single family or zero lot line residence shall be
repeated on the same side of the street unless it is separated by a minimum of three
(3) lots from the same elevation. No front house elevation on a single family or
zero lot line residence shall be repeated directly across the street or within one (1)
lot of one another on either side of the residence and on either side of the street.
No more than three (3) consecutive rear elevations may be provided on single
family and zero lot line residences with rear elevations abutting a collector road.
Exhibit C — Page 10

2.8.2

Repeat Brick Usage: All residential plan and specification submittals shall be
required to calculate the percentage coverage for each material. Plans that
fail to do so may be returned or result in a delay in the review process.
2.8.2.1 Same Side of Street: No combination of brick color, mortar color, and sand
color shall be repeated for adjacent residences. Street and alley intersections
are acceptable separation elements.
2.8.2.2 Opposite Side of Street: Same brick color, mortar color, and sand color for
residential units on opposing sides of the street should be separated by at
least one (1) lot.
2.8.2.3 NO pink brick is allowed. NO white brick or painting of brick is allowed
without the prior written consent of the Reviewer. All Builders shall
endeavor to use brick and stone colors that will stay within the aesthetic
color scheme of the residences being constructed within the development
and shall not use any brick or stone color that will cause a stark contrast
without the express written consent of the Reviewer.

SECTION 2.9FRONT ENTRIES
2.9.1 Each residence shall have front entries visible from the street, and shall include one
of the following features on the front elevation: a covered front entry with an area recessed a
minimum of eighteen inches (18"); a covered front porch a minimum of four feet (4') in depth; a
bay window; or dormers. Features provided under this section may be counted to satisfy features
required by the following section.
SECTION 2.10REQUIRED ARCHITECHTURAL FEATURES
2.10.1 Each residence constructed on any Lot shall include at least two (2) of the following
design features along the front of the residence or the side of the residence facing a street or an
open space area designated on a plat:
(1) window pop-outs;
(2) recessed windows;
(3) architectural pillars or posts;
(4) bay windows;
(5) a brick chimney on an exterior wall;
(6) cast stone accents;
(7) a covered front porch a minimum of four feet (4') in depth;
(8) a cupola or turret;
(9) doimers;
(10) gables;
(11) no garage doors that directly face the street;
(12) metal roof accents;
(13) multiple types of masonry materials;
(14) recessed entries (a minimum of three feet [3'] in depth);
Exhibit C — Page 11

(15) minimum 8:12 primary roof pitch;
(16) separate transom windows; or
(17) shutters.
SECTION 2.11VISIBILITY
2.11.1 On any corner Lot for which front and side yards are required, no wall, fence,
structure, sign, tree, or other planting or sloped terrace or embankment may be maintained higher
than three feet (3') above the street grade so as to cause danger or hazard to traffic by obstructing
the view of the intersection from a point 30 feet back from the right-of-way corner. Visual
clearance shall be provided so that no fence, wall, vegetation, architectural screen, earth mounding,
or landscaping obstructs the vision of a motor vehicle driver approaching any street, alley, or
driveway intersection.
SECTION 2.12 SWIMMING POOLS
2.12.1 The Association requires a minimum of five feet (5') from the edge of any decking
around the pool to the fence. Lesser distance shall only be allowed with written variance from
the Reviewer. To allow a lesser distance the Reviewer may require one or more french or short
drains to help keep the flow of water moving along the natural or established drainage flow. No
pool or decking may cover the entire yard. Structures must remain to the back of the residence
unless prior written consent is provided by the Reviewer. Outdoor kitchens and any other
improvements required prior written consent of the Reviewer and installation by a licensed,
professional contractor and/or installer. NO ABOVE GROUND POOL INCLUDING SWIM
SPAS ARE ALLOWED.
2.12.2 Swimming pool fences and enclosures shall comply with all applicable federal and
state regulations. A permit from the City of Princeton is required.
2.12.3 It shall be a violation to fail to meet the minimum standards required for
maintaining a swimming pool enclosure or safety device as set forth by the City of Princeton and
any Ordinance or Local Government Code.

Exhibit C — Page 12

Exhibit Attachment 1.1.2-A
City of Princeton approved tree list
(list is not all-inclusive)

Canopy TreesOrnamental Trees
Pecan

Bradford Pear

Chinese Pistachio

Large Crepe Myrtle

Caddo Maple

Purple Plum

Cedar Elm

Golden Raintree

Texas Ash

Saucer Magnolia

Lacebark Elm

Japanese Black Pine

Live Oak

Lacey Oak

Red Oak

Wax Myrtle

Exhibit C — Exhibit Attachment 1.1.2-A

Exhibit Attachment 1.1.3-B
City of Princeton approved shrubs list
(list is not all-inclusive)

Shrubs
Evergreen Shrubs for low screening 5-feet or less:
Dwarf Abelia
Barberry
Japanese Boxwood
Dwarf Eleagnus

Evergreen Shrubs acceptable for 6-foot screening:
Cleyera
Sweet Viburnum
Willowleaf Holly
Waxleaf Ligustrum
Cherry Laurel

Other Allowed Shrubs:
Possumhaw Holly
Chinese Holly
Juniper
Nandina
Sumac
Texas Sage (Ceniza)

[End of Exhibit CJ
